transcript by publicpierre@gmail.com

Tape 1 of 10
Introduction by Interviewer: The date is June forth 1995, survivor is Ernest S. Lobet,
interviewer is Louise Bobrow, the city is Glen Cove, state is New York and the country is
United States of America and the language is in English.
Interviewer: My name is Louise Bobrow today 's date is June forth, 1995, and I am
conducting an interview with Ernest S. Lobet in Glen Cove New York in the United States
of America.
Interviewer: Hello, I 'd like to begin by asking you for your name and would you spell it.
Ernest: My name is Ernest S. Lobet and I spell my last name L-O-B-E-T
Interviewer: And could you spell your first name?
Ernest: Ernest E-R-N-E-S-T
Interviewer: Was that your name at birth?
Ernest: Well, it was a German version of Ernest which is actually Ernst which has no “E”
it 's E-R-N-S-T and my last name was Lobethal which had a “hal” at the end and I have
dispensed with that “hal” and made it Lobet when I came to this country, and, interestingly
enough my sister when she was in England she deleted the “Lo” and she became Miss
Bethal very English names so. That what we did.
Interviewer: Did you have any other names that you went by…
Ernest: No, those are the only names I had.
Interviewer: Any nicknames?
Ernest: Not really, eh...at least none that I can recall.
Interviewer: What is your birthday?
I was born in February, the fifth of February, 1925.
Interviewer: And where?
In Breslau, Germany, what was then Germany.
Interviewer: Would you spell Breslau?
It 's B-R-E-S-L-A-U
Interviewer: Could you describe for me what you remember Breslau looked like?
Well, it 's, it was a gothic city actually, very pretty, I really don 't recall it all that well, er, but I
remember the center of the town which had a medieval Rathaus, and typically gothic small houses
and it was very quaint and quite nice looking, and it had a great university, uh, it had sort of
a river running through the center of town called the Stadtgram and it had a population of
approximately 600.000 people.
Interviewer: And of the 600.000 how many would you say were Jewish at the time that you were living
in Breslau?
From what I heard it had a very sizable Jewish population and it had about 35.000 Jews, a
roughly 5% of the total population.
and it really was a stepping stone of the Polish Jewry when they came to America, Breslau
was the first big German city that they hit once they arrived in Germany itself.
Interviewer: Do you remember your exact address that you lived in Breslau?
Yeah, I do, it 's a, was a place called Goethestrasse named after the German poet
Wolgang von Goethe, and the number was 45-47.
Interviewer: Describe your house to me.
It was an apartment house, and I think we had initially lived in this place and had a rather
large apartment on the third floor, and after the death of my mother, who was living with my
grandmother, we moved into a much, much smaller apartment, which consisted of two
rooms, and the kitchen and the bath.
Interviewer: On the same street?
On the...in the same house.
Interviewer: In the same house.
Yes, and we gave up, I think we had an eight room apartment before, so it was quite a
come down for my grandmother, but, I was too small to really take notice on that.
Interviewer: Would you be able to describe for me the Jewish community, in Breslau?
I have, er, not really that many recollections of the Jewish community even though I went
to, was made to go to synagogue, every Saturday, it was a routine thing for me, mumbling
words that I had learned, but didn't really know what they meant, and it was primarily in the
courtyard of that synagogue, a gathering place for the young people on Saturday morning,
to gather and talk, and “shoot the breeze” as we would say.
Interviewer: How many synagogues were there would you say?
There were two, one was and orthodox, and the other was reform, and the one i went to
was the reform.
Interviewer: Do you remember the name of it?
Eh g, I think it was called Neue Synagogue, which means new synagogue,
Er as differentiated from Altes Synagogue, which was the orthodox synagogue, was also
na, also known as Des StorkI don 't know why, that was the name, yea I remember
that.
Interviewer: Were there other Jewish institutions in town that you remember, besides synagogues, for
example, theater or…newspapers
There might very well have been…

….but I do not recall, in detail, I mean, the school that I went to was a Jewish school, and I
ended that school in 1934, I think it was.
What was the name of that?
Er, I don 't really remember, Im sure it was called Judischer with a form schuler not
reform , uder…????????aner acht, I think that was the name, it just means, Jewish school
and anner acht was its address, and it was actually, right adjacent with the new
synagogue.

Interviewer: Could you describe what your daily life was like, growing up in Breslau, what do you
remember?
Well initially I lived with my parents, and my sister, but I have almost no memories of that
period of time, my father left eh, when I was four years old, and I think it was quite a
scandal in the town when he did because the family was a very prominent family in town,
and he was a CEO and he had in fact left his wife and two small children and that, was a
no, no certainly at that time, in 1929, and so it was picked up in the newspapers, and
became quite a scandal and I lived then with my mother and grandmother, and my sister,
in the apartment, and I do not know at what time, we changed over, it probably was after
my mothers death, my mother died in 1932, way before Hitler came to power, she died of
tuberculosis and she had been sick two years before that, and since children were not
allowed to visit tuberculosis patients, I think I only saw her twice or three times in the two
years that she was sick, and people said she died of a broken heart, but whatever the
reason eh, I then, I was really too young during that period of time, that it really did not
impact on me, er made any great impact on me at that time.

Interviewer: What was your fathers name?
Rudolf.
Interviewer: Lobet?
Yes, Lobethal, yea, yea. He had left eh, and he had left and nobody knew where he had
gone, we were at the Baltic sea, during the summer with a nanny which sort of understand
was fairly powerful because, with my mother, and when we came back, he had just left,
and I understand he had taken with him a very substantial amount of the fortune that the
family had.
Interviewer: What type of business did he have?
He was a CEO in a very large factory that the family, not my mothers family, but from his
side, was owned by his side of the family, they were making ships cords, ropes and cords
and employed a large number of people I think some six hundred people, and I think he
converted a lot of the assets to money, and left with a former girlfriend, who had been a
university student in Berlin with him, and they went to South Africa, and that is in
essence….
It took my mother I understand, years to find him, and she sued him, and of course she
won, but it was a thurig (?) victory, she never saw a penny, and I never heard a word from
him, I really only know what happened to him through a cousin of his who remained in
Breslau and I think the word eventually came through, that he in fact had died at a rather
young age, also in 1936. And I've often wondered, whether after my mothers death, he
remarried, were there any half sisters, or half brothers, I made a half hearted attempt to
find out if there was anybody since its a rather unusual name and I thought anybody who
would be named Lobethal in South Africa might very well have some relation to me, but I
went through all the phone books in Johannesburg, which is where he had gone to, and
there was no Lobethal listed, I gave up on it, so I never did find out.
Interviewer: After your mother died, you were how old when your mother died?
Er, I was seven.
Interviewer: And your mothers name was?
Freda.
Interviewer: And her maiden name?
Silberstine, so.
Interviewer: And did you have a sister, did you mention?

I have a sister.
Interviewer: And her name is?
Her name is Suzanne, now Sue.
And was she younger or older than you?
She is older, she is two years older, but she too has no recollection really, of either of my
parents. What we do have is vivid recollections of my grandmother
Interviewer: And her name?
Rosa
Who started to raise us.
Interviewer: That was your mother's mother?


Thats my mother's mother, yes, and who was a very remarkable woman because she was
a patrician lady who had really known great wealth and a lot of money had been lost is
1929, and sewing German depression, rather German inflation, and by the
time that her daughter died, my mother, the money had already become very scarce, and
she worked, she must have been oh, I would say close to sixty probably already at that
time, and she was all of a sudden saddled with two young children, 1932, I was seven, my
sister was nine, and I think she was ill-equipped to raise two children who was that young,
having had servants most of her life, and she was full of love, and would take off her shirt
for her grandchildren, eh, well, she was quite a woman, but eventually she was persuaded,
she had this, my mother had a brother, and I think they were finally, she, they, finally
persuaded my grandmother that, she would be better off in giving us, to let us go to the
Jewish orphanage, in Breslau.
Interviewer: Did that have a name?
Oh yea, it was called Jewish….The German name was Judische Weisenhause
, or Judische Weisen Verpflegun was its correct title, which means, Jewish
wave (?) Caring home
Something like that.
Interviewer: Could you describe the orphanage?
It was horrible!
Interviewer: Why?
Well, it was eh, and I really did not realize it then, but I realize it now, it was run in
accordance with the German principal of, “Children are to be seen and not heard”
It was very disciplinarian, all the rules were designed to, for the benefit of the staff of the
orphanage, rather than for the benefit of the children, it had the hair of the boys, were
shorn half, you know so as to save on bills for the eh, hairdresser.
Soccer, which was of corse the game, could not be played in the yard, because they were
afraid that one would break the windows, once you came back from school, we did attend
the Jewish schools, there were no special schools, once you were back from school you
were pretty much cooped up, in the orphanage, you could not go out to visit your friends
from, your classmates, something you heard about in the class all the time, I 'Il come and
see you this afternoon, and so on and so forth, and yet you could not participate in that,
you were sort of, put apart, from the very beginning, and the food, well, always sufficient
was on the system, if you are small and thin, you gotta eat more, so they had this horrible
rule, that whatever they put on your plate it 's not what you took because you stood in line
and they ladled it out usually potatoes and gravy and sometimes some vegetable, and
some times herring or whatever, not any great food, but it was ladled out to you on your
plate and of course as I was always a skinny and tiny kid I always got much much more
than I could possibly eat and this being the case and since you have to finish it, and you
couldn 't leave the tables, it was communal dining, until you had finished it, I found myself
daily sitting there after everybody had left, trying to finish my food and of course over the
years I developed, over the months I should say, I developed all kinds of subterfuges to
get rid of my food by making deal with those of my fellow kids, the other boys, who were
sitting next to me, if I have given part of my food, you know, if they take it then I...we were
all collecting stamps, I would trade stamps for food, this kind of a thing, I developed a
scheme were by I would carry a handkerchief, we wore short pants of course at that time
, you know, I developed a scheme where I would take out the handkerchief and spread it
out on my lap, and while eating, you know, then and I see nobody was looking, or rather
nobody of, at that table were the adults were sitting, I would scoop a whole bunch of
potatoes and spinach into the handkerchief, put it together and put it in my pocket, where
of course it was very hot, and very often the gravy or the spinach sauce was running down
my (he laughs), my bare knees, as I was trying to get up to the toilet to dump the food. I
hated every moment of that orphanage.
Interviewer: What was it like for you leaving your family?
It was a terrible, terrible, terrible place, and I hated every moment I became a very
destructive influence, in that orphanage. I ran away few times, was brought back, and they
finally said to me that I was instigating the other kids in this orphanage but to obey, and to
do all kinds of bad things, contrary to all the rules, and contrary to the regulations, and,
that if I do not mend my ways they would have to throw me out and I..I remember the long
sermon I got from this, Erzieher as he was called in German, I guess we would call him
what...er...I don 't know the educator, and he would say “you know we 've never thrown
anybody out of this orphanage since, in the entire existence of this institution” he said
“you 'd be the first one” he said “people will always know” he said “and they 'll always point
the finger at you and say: this boy was thrown out of the orphanage”. You know what? (he
laughs) I 'm still waiting...for anybody to come and say that to me, but eventually I was
thrown out. But I also learnt, you know, since I had this big problem with eating, at the
orphanage, I started getting bread and sandwiches from my classmates, who were a
rather affluent bunch because the Jewish community in Breslau was rather affluent and
the children that were in that class, you know, came with these fantastic sandwiches that
had sausages and butter on them, well whatever great stuff, and so they probably told
their mother “hey, give me a little….one other one for the kid from the orphanage in my
class” and of course the mothers did that. So I learnt the taste of everybody's sandwich
and of course I became very choosy, which ones I would eat, but it was a sort of a vicious
circle because I ate, then I ate in school the sandwiches of the other kids, and then I was
even less hungry when I got back to the orphanage and I could even, eat less, and I had
to stay longer so it was a vicious circle but eventually they did throw me out, and they gave
me to foster parents, it was the happiest day of my life, or one of the happiest days of my
youth, I should say.
Interviewer: How old were you, when they threw you out?
Oh..when was I thrown out, I must have been thirteen. Yea it was in 38,
Interviewer: And your sister was still there?
My sister had just left for England, she got on one of these kinder transports that German
Jewish children at that time, some of them anyhow, had the chance to go to England, on
these kinder transports to live with English families, and my sister was chosen as one of
them.
Interviewer: In the orphanage did they celebrate Jewish holidays?
Oh yea, this was a very er, very….they certainly were quite religious, yea.
Interviewer: What do you remember about the holidays, in the orphanage?
Oh I remember the Seders, for one thing every morning it was Tefillin , you 're familiar
with the Tefillin thing I couldn 't put on a Tefillin if it killed me today but at that time I
certainly...but it 's totally rogue it is a meaningless thing, you know, but you do
it as a kid because that's what was expected of you. Every Friday evening there was
service and every Saturday everybody was traipsed off to the synagogue where you were
expected to attend the service, and one did. They kept all the Jewish holidays Pesach,
what I remember most is that I was not allowed to fast on Iom Kippur, not that I would have
really cared but it was a sort of a status symbol because the older boys were allowed to
fast and I think that the cut off date was thirteen if you were over thirteen, if you have
been Bar Mitzva you were allowed to fast all day on Iom Kippur otherwise you had to eat. So
naturally I wanted to fast, that 's what I remember.
Interviewer: Did you celebrate a Bar Mitzva?
Yeah.
Interviewer: What do you remember about it?
That I got a bicycle (he laughs)
Interviewer: From who?
From my grandmother, and she must have slaved and knitted hundreds of hats to buy it.
But that 's what I remember the most of my Bar Mitzva.
Interviewer: And then you went, you said you went to live with foster parents…
I lived with foster parents who were the exact opposite, they were being paid by the
Judische Gemeinde which was a Jewish community, just like I think today foster parents in
this country are being paid for from a social service agency and they did this for a living,
they had three other boys, they had two separate rooms, so, we were four each, and the
two boys in the room, and you had absolute freedom, you could go, come and go as you
wanted as long as you were home by eight o 'clock in the evening, they couldn't care less.
And it was really wonderful, and I forgot how long I stayed with them, they asked no
questions, and I was thirteen and I was free from an environment that had so restrained
me that I hated so much, that I found myself just in an euphoric state…
Interviewer: Do you remember their names, or...?
Yeah. Paiza (he laughs)
That was her last name Paiza?
How (?) and Flow Paiza. Garalous old people really, fairly old, primarily concerned that they
get paid, but they kept us fed, and they said, “How are you doing in school?” every so
often, you know, but by that time it was already after Kristallnacht there was not even
any more regular school.
Interviewer: So you were how old, you were thirteen to fifteen is that what I understood?
I was thirteen in 1938, yes.
Interviewer: You mention to me that you had an uncle who was famous?
Oh well, yeah it 's great, let 's see, he 's a brother of my grandmother…
Interviewer: Rosa Silverstone?
Yeah. No, no, no, from my father 's side.
Interviewer: And his name?
Paul Ehrlich.
Interviewer: And why was he famous?
Oh, he discovered the Salvarsan, a preparation called Salvarsan which was a cure for
syphilis, in 1903, I think it was, and he won a Nobel Prize and they made a movie of him
which a lot of people know, I 'm quite surprised, it 's called “The magic bullet” and there's a
film museum here in New York, actually, and I went down there, and they have a complete
set of “The magic bullet” that was shown...and...he died, I don 't know when he died, I think
in the early 1910 or somewhere around that time...and...I don 't know...in any
event, yes he's the brother of my grandmother and so I guess that makes him my
granduncle, my great granduncle or something like that.
Interviewer: You attended school up-until what age?
School effectively stopped for Jewish, German Jewish children after Kristallnacht.
Interviewer: So you were how old?
Thirteen, and that was the ninth of November 1938.
Interviewer: You were in what grade approximately?
Ah, let 's see what is it? Er...I was thirteen, so, it 's...seven years, so it 's what...thirteenth
grade…[he mutters], thirteenth grade...I 'm not familiar with…
Interviewer: Seventh?
Seventh grade, seventh grade? Right. I 'm not familiar with the...american school system…
Interviewer: O.k. and was it a Jewish school that you attended the all time?
Yeah. Well, because I think right in 1933 er...33 or 34, I think
the first laws came out separating Jewish children from the Christian schools so that all
Jewish children, in-fact were leaving the German schools and came to the Jewish school
that had been newly established.
Interviewer: Did you have Jewish and non Jewish friends?
No they were only Jewish friends, and Jewish classmates in that school, that was a strictly
Jewish school, and I do not recall, I mean, I probably was quite young then but...there 's
only one event that I graphically recall and it must have been the day of the election of
Hitler, to become Reich 's Chancellor that would have been then in 1933.
But everybody in my class went around, and these were young kids, 1933, I
was eight years old, and they were running around saying “Heil Hitler, heil Hitler” all in the
class and of course in my family “heil Hitler” had never been mentioned, so was rather
surprised what is that, “heil Hitler” all about but I had heard the word Freiheit  which means
liberty, so I said, “liberty” and they grabbed me and brought me before the teacher

Tape 2 of 10

Interviewer: We left off on the last tape talking about when Hitler came to power and everybody was shouting “Heil Hitler, Heil Hitler” in your classroom, and you mentioned at the end of the
tape you...they grabbed you, what happened?

Well, I had said, “Freiheit” without really knowing what that meant, except that it was
something of a party that was running in Germany for office, and obviously had lost, it was
the wrong word to say and these young kids they obviously knew about it and they
grabbed me and they brought me before….and then the teacher came in and he says er...
“Ensto” which was a sort of... the way I was known in class, said “Freiheit” and the teacher
says, “Ok let him go” and that was it, there was nothing else, But it was just, you know, all
of a sudden it came to me that something has happened that I really was not fully aware,
because my Grandmother was not really politically, you know, informed, and Hitler was
maybe the last thing in the world that she would discuss with her grandchildren, at that
time.
Interviewer: What changes did you begin to notice, as Hitler came into power, what..what happened?

Well, the world became a Jewish world and, one...it became quite obvious that life as the
German children of my age had was totally alien to us the Jewish children, I mean these
kids were starting to talk about the Hitler youth and when they were going to get into it and
the uniforms and everything else, and they were in their parades and of course this was
all, became quite obvious even to a young child…..I guess I was nine or ten, that we were
quite different that we were Jewish which was something that was not acceptable, and in
fact as I have two cousins who were, my uncle er, the brother of my mother had married a
non Jewish woman and I had two cousins who were, who's uncle, well let me see, their
mother was non Jewish, and their mother had a brother so I guess it was their uncle who
had become a rabid Nazi, very early in the 30 's, and of course very much resented the
fact that his sister had married a Jew and that he had nephews who were half arians and
er, that marriage went on the rocks fairly quickly after Hitler came to power and their
mother resumed her maiden name which was “Biaha” it was a good German name, and
once in a while these two boys, my cousins came to visit my grandmother, which was also
their grandmother and thats maybe as close as I came to have any intercourse with boys
my age who were not really Jewish, even though they were, as far as the German arian
race laws were concerned, they were considered half arians, and they sort of eventually
became rather supportive of Naz...of Hitler which is not a great surprise considering that
er.. the whole family including their mother who had divorced my uncle, were sort of Nazis
but I myself had no real contact with non Jewish children.

Interviewer: Did you have and restrict...do you remember any restrictions, that were placed upon
Jewish people, as Hitler came into power... what do you remember that you were
forbidden to do?

The er...the original restrictions, I think the very first ones of any significance were probably
the Nuremberg laws which were the German race laws, and I think there were inacted in
1936 but I 'm not sure of that.
Interviewer: How did that effect you?
It really did not impact me directly because, I really did not know, you know in 1936 I was eleven and while I heard it said over and over again and it says that, you
know, there can be no relations between...sexual relations between Jews and non Jews,
that really didn 't mean very much to me at that time, I think other laws were in-acted at that
time that did not directly impact on me, certain Jews could not practice in German courts
for example Jewish lawyers could not practice, Jewish professors could not teach in
German universities, and I don 't exactly know whether this was already in 1936 or somewhat later, but the only way that this effected me actually, and I became aware
of, is that the teaching staff in the Jewish school was of the first quality because all these
professors from the great universities of Germany, in Weimar, in Berlin and Hidelberg who
had lost their jobs were looking for work and all they could do was find work teaching the
additions and divisions to eleven and twelve year olds, and these were professors with
the most unbelievable degrees and qualifications and also there was already... starting..
the trend of people like this to look for ways to emigrate, and it was somewhat early
though, but still the first inkling appeared. The real change I think came in 1938 with the
event of Kristallnacht .

Interviewer: Tell me what you remember personally, about Kristallnacht ?

What I personally rem...well, I went to school on the ninth of November 1938, and to my great surprise I saw the huge synagogue that was constructed in
somewhere eighteen ninety and it was a beautiful gothic building, though I don 't think I
knew that at that time, it was on fire.
And also what I had noticed on my way to school, and it was about a fifteen minute walk
from the orphanage to the synagogue was quite a few stores that had their windows
smashed and their merchandise thrown all about and broken bottles and what have you,
and these were Jewish stores, so I knew something was amiss.

Interviewer: How was that for you?

Well its...it did not…. you know.. you sort off don 't fully realize the implication at that time,
more important was that many of my classmates had not shown up at all, and gradually
word spread that the Nazi 's were rounding up all the Jews, all the male Jews and taking
them to a concentration camp, and of course, I forgot what the correct number is but I think
all over Germany at that time some forty thousand Jewish males were arrested and taken
to Buckenwhalt or Saxenhausen some of the concentration camps then existing, and
these camps had of course been formed to initially imprison the German anti Nazi people
that were either communists or socialists or had campaigned against the Nazis.

Interviewer: What happened to you that day though, when you got to school?

Nothing, nothing happened to me, I was standing in a group of other people gawking at
the burning synagogue knowing there would be no school and I was really debating now
what they were…...I think I said, “Oh there 's going to be no school today” but admitted did
not impact until just after I started to realize that something was horribly amiss, and this did
not happen maybe until well…. I guess it was that day and then the next day when it
became quite obvious that the Nazis were rounding up the Jews, but the orphanage itself I
don't recall it having being impacted primarily because it was primarily children in there,
but then as I spoke to my classmates and they said “my father was taken away and we
don't know where he is”...then..and this great…throughout the Jewish community there
was, together with that of corse they came other laws one I think was, a mandatory fine I
don't know some horrendous sum that was levied on the German Jews to be paid as a
sort of a penalty and together with I understand all kinds of other laws like, you couldn't go
to the movies, couldn't ride a….listen to the radio, you couldn 't own a radio, I don't know
wether the collection of gold and silver was before or after but I know that you couldn't own
any gold or silver and yeah this was collected.

Interviewer: But you personally, did...had you been able to go to the movies before and now you were prohibited? What personal freedoms were taken away from you after Kristallnacht,
immediately after Kristallnacht?

As they directly impacted on me at that time, probably very little. We had no radios in the
orphanage, bike riding was not forbidden at that time if I remember, but you couldn't go to
any public function, you couldn't go to any swim... bath or swimming pool or anything like
that but since I had very few of these things actually myself, it didn't impact on me, to any
great extent, but I heard all the stories constantly and all, of the fathers who had been
taken away into the camps, you know, then nobody really knew when they would come
back and I think it was also economically, you know I think the Jews were not allowed to
own almost anything at that point.

Interviewer: Excuse me, When did it begin to impact upon you, what year
would you say life really changed for you, as a Jew in Germany?

Much later actually because I was still living with these foster parents and then
somebody decided... some social...Jewish social service agency.. somebody must
have suggested to send me to Hachshara which existed at that time in Germany.

Interviewer: What is that?

Er. These were sort of patterned on the kibbutzim in Israel and they were really
designed to prepare young Jews for a life in what was then Palestine and
eventually a Jewish State, in accordance with the dictates of Theodore Hurtstel who
was fond of Zionism. And I had not known really about Zionism but there was a
trend afoot among German, the German jury which was a sort of a Mea Culpa,
the reason why we have all this anti semitism in Germany is because we are
intellectuals and we became doctors and lawyers and merchants and what we
really should have done is work the land, and till the soil and then there wouldn't
have been this anti semitism, the rationale now has always really escaped me but I
think it was a outgrowth of German Jews who had been completely integrated into
the German society and had considered themselves as being total Germans, being
so shellshocked that all of a sudden they were called Jews when many of them had
already forgotten the fact that they were Jews, that they were looking for a rationale
for this anti semitism.
Interviewer: So you were sent to ick but…. Kibbutzim, you worked on a kibbutz for a while?

So I was working...and it was an agrarian commune of young people…

Interviewer: In Breslau, near Breslau?

No, no, no, it was in a place called Snibiencien in the Niederlausitz somewhere
between Breslau and Berlin actually I think it was... I don 't know geographically
exactly where it was, had a number of cows and chickens and a couple of pigs and
you tilled the soil and grew stuff, vegetables and tomatoes and learned about
agrarian things and in the afternoon you learned Hebrew, which I spoke quite well
at the time but I must say it didn't help me very much recently because I forgot
almost all of it.

Interviewer: How long did you remain on the kibbutz?

I guess it was primarily through the year 1940, and then these kibbutzim were
disbanded, I understand one of the reasons that the Germans let them exist was
and I never found out whether this was truly so but...that they thought that they
could in fact send these young Jews to what was then Palestine clandestinely and
upset the Arabs enough to rise against the British occupation of Palestine, so it was
not something that the nazis did for the Jews but it was one of the many
brainstorms they had that figured it might come in handy and when eventually
turned out that they couldn 't really do that somehow even though I think there was
one or two boats that actually did go down the Danube and did wind up in Israel but
the Arabs did not rise up it was one of these experiments that they discontinued.
Interviewer: So what happened to you?
I went back to my home town which was Breslau.
Interviewer: You left the Kibbutz when it was disbanded?
Yeah!
Interviewer: Went back to Breslau?
Went back to Breslau
Interviewer: You were how old now?
Well is is 19… probably the end of 1940s so Im fifteen, starting to be sixteen, and I
was informed that I would be integrated into the German war effort of course by that
time Hitler had overrun France Hitler was at his zenith and Luftwaffe was bombarding
England and of course Germany was already planning Barbarossa which was the
invasion of the Soviet Union but nobody knew that then, and I was told to report to
a small German er.. d' know you 'd call it a factory probably which recapped tires by
means of artificial rubber… cut down the existing rubber that remained on old tires
then glued on raw rubber which was then melted in forms at high pressure… came
up with a new tire, well what would I say… thickness.. and it was a typical German
operation, I was initially the only Jew in that place and it was organized in the
typical German way where you start as an apprentice and go on to journeymen and
then become a master... the German system, and it had all Germans in there when
I got there anyhow but fairly quickly within that year there were other Jews that
were sent to that place and also some Frenchmen came to work there.
Some of the German workmen were very nazi and anti-semitic and many others
couldn't care one way or the other and ignored you
What was your experience in this factory?
Interviewer: None, what I started but er… I sort of was treated like… I got inside one of the things
where you sort of put this rubber which was made by…. in a German… this raw
rubber actually was buna rubber and you had to put it onto the carcass of the tire
and put it on there and then make sure that there were no air bubbles in there its a
sort of a technical operation before it went into a form that then under high steam
was compressed and melted down and let cool, so they taught me how to do that,
and the work started at six in the morning and ended at six in the afternoon, we
were paid German wages in accordance with the German tariffs and believe it or
not we became part of the German social security system, wages were withheld for
like nothing had ever happened you know because its the only way the Germans
knew how to operate, you started to work somewhere you know and then you
became an employee and they withheld certain moneys and of corse we made a
minimal amount but of course with the long hours and very often saturday work I
started bringing home some money and supported my grandmother

Interviewer: You were living now back with your grandmother?

I was living with my grandmother in one room and so we started to have some
money for the necessities and I was with that company all of 1941 and 42 till the
end of 42 till I was arrested and deported with the last actually with the last Jews
remaining in Breslau because gradually the Germans started deporting the Jews
from Breslau letting those remain that were working in factories associated with the
German war effort and certainly the one I was with was associated with that, so I
was really on the last transport of Breslau Jews

Interviewer: What was the name of the factory do you remember?

Oh yes its a very long word I don't know its called.. was called Otto Glucke was
the owner Autoreifen Runderneuerung Gewerkschaft  and it means tires... tire recapping...
Factory..er.. tire renewal recapping factory something like that

Interviewer: Now during the time you were at this factory when you went home in the evening
were there restrictions placed upon your life?

Well the restrictions were.. Number one you had the Jewish star I forgot to mention
this but it came in sometime in the late 30 's I guess that everybody wore the Jewish
star and of corse you had eh.. added the name Israel to your name which you had
to use at all times and it is at that time that you realize that there is... you know... no
radio and no entertainment though I think er...no that was earlier there was no more
entertainment and but I did do… my grandmother had become quite sick and very
dependent on me at that time and she really couldn't get around very well anymore
and we were on the third floor and of course it was walking up and she was not
capable of doing that anymore so when I came home I would er go you know we
had the food was rationed and you had these coupons which was stamped Jew
and you could only go to certain stores to buy the things that you got you know a
certain ration of bread and so on but we had a local store which we had frequented
since we had moved into the area it was owned by and old German and his wife
who know my family and sometimes when I came at night with my coupons he
would sneak me some extra butter... some potatoes always something, certainly not
a nazi, and he would enquire but one had to make sure there was nobody else in
the store so we were able to manage…. Oh yes also what they had started to
regulate was the amount of electricity the Jews could use and the amount of
cooking gas and it was a ridiculously... a ridiculous figure and what was enough for
maybe two days of normal use and that was all the Jews… the total electricity the
Jews were allowed to use but I remember I regularly got kerosine from this
merchant so that we were able to cook on the kerosine burner and this is how we
existed from 1941 through 1943 and the first rumors started appearing many
German Jews having been... having had this integration with the German society
before Hitler... knew at least one arian whom they could count on and many knew
many more, there were families who had employed Germans in their homes as
cooks and maids and who had had to leave after the 9th of November who had
retained a relationship with their former employers there were others that had been
friends and had formed relations and we had a woman that I think my grandmother
had known and she was.. she had been married to a Jew and he had died and er...
Who came from time to time and brought us some additional food, we had in fact a
next door neighbor also a woman who had been married to a Jew who had also
died and had remained friendly with us and she would come late in the evening,
and again… and almost every…. I wouldn 't say every but a great number of
German Jews knew somebody who was willing to help them and this is really today
not fully understood but also what started to come through at this time is reports of
the treatment of the Polish Jews by the Germans and these reports were
horrendous and they came from German troops who were talking within their own
circles and it was rumors that swept through the Jewish community that the
Germans were already arresting Jews in Poland and in many cases killing them
and forcing them into ghettos

Interviewer: How was that for you… hearing that?

You know what...it wasn't fully believed the stories were so gruesome they were
actually very very close to the truth but they were not fully believed… it can not be I
mean...you know.. I mean… what your just shot for nothing... they're herded
together and thrown into a ghetto and left to die of hunger it was called Goil
Propaganda.

Interviewer: So you didn 't believe what you heard?

You didn't want to believe it because it was something of things to come that you
could not reconcile with your own faith and few didn't want to believe it and you
don't believe what you don 't want to believe. Oh yes probably the Germans are
treating the Polish Jews very badly but its probably not all as bad as they say it is,
and that of corse was very true

Interviewer: So what happened how were you deported do you remember exactly…..?

Well you know the lists of deportations were prepared by the Jewish community the
nazis being basically incredibly lazy never did anything of their own they relied for
anything that had to be done on the Jewish community to carry out and so what
was done… lists were prepared and it listed the Jews that were to go into transport

Tape 3 of 10 

Interviewer: We left off on the last tape talking about lists were drawn up by the Jewish
community for Jews to be deported. Tell me what happened to you… when was it
first of all... document what year this was...and month

Well my own deportation occurred in early 1943

Interviewer: The winter?

The winter of 1943 it must have been January there would have been many many
transports before of Breslau Jews the old and the…. My grandmother was spared
because we had some connection to a lady who actually was working at the Jewish
community that were preparing the lists she was living in the same house and had
been a family friend that was strictly….and so my grandmother was spared and she
was still there with me all through 1942 but her sisters had been deported and
many many many other people who were not directly involved in the war effort in
essence what was left of the Jewish community at the end of 1942 were mostly
young or up to maybe forty.. people who were working within the German industry
everybody else almost everybody else had been deported… there was no more
way to emigrate in 1942 I think the very last people who were able to leave
Germany was in 1941 to the United States, very very few got out that late in the
game, and it was sort of sad because you know every one of the German Jews
could have been saved. It was the one Jewry that could have been saved in the
entirety because Hitler had no objection to letting the German Jews go, he would
just keep all their belongings and all… everything that they owned but the fact that
so few countries were willing to accept them and when the panic hit after the 9th of
November after KristallNacht and these panicky Jews were trying to get out
anywhere to any place they found they couldn't go anywhere they were then stuck
in Germany so these German Jews in Breslau had been deported and came the
end of 1942 I think it was the final list and I don't know how many we were but I
think we probably were about 3.000 but I'm not sure of that at all… and we were
told beforehand that tomorrow at… morning be ready to go on transport and the
word was... you are going to be transported east to work in the east no details were
given we all thought that it might be hard work but as long as we work hard we
knew that we needed clothing for the winter that was commensurate with the cold in
Poland we thought it would be Poland but even thought it might be Russia no idea
really what was going to happen, and I had prepared a rucksack with anything that I
thought I would need...

Interviewer: What did you take with you?

Oh mostly whatever warm clothing I possessed, socks and shoes, and I also had
food to last me for a few days at least…

Interviewer: Was your grandmother on this list also?

No. She was not, it was just me and oh I was all ready and there was just waiting
for somebody to come… we were told just wait and you'll be picked up and I think it
was rather late in the afternoon when two men in leather coats, and obviously
Gestapo men came and they were quite civil they said “O.k. you 'll be ready for your
transport to the east” and I said “yes” and they looked at my rucksack and says
“O.k.” [he sobs and cries] I'm sorry... My grandmother she was standing there and
she looked so pitiful and she was so helpless without me and she knew she
couldn't cope and she begged, she begged them “can 't you leave him” she didn't
understand “can 't you leave him he 's my sole support and I need him”... [he helps
himself to a handkerchief, while sobbing] ...But they became quite rough, they said
“get ready now” so I just embraced her, and I knew I would never see her again, I
knew, I would never, never see her again, and she was such a good woman, and I
really don't know what happened to her. I know what happened to her, but I don't
know how she managed the first few days all by herself, unable to really move in
this place. But they took me, and there were ready, it was a sort of a truck, a closed
truck, and they told me to get in, there were already some twenty people in there
who had been waiting there all day because they had started out in the morning,
and, they still made some ten stops after that, and it was very late in the evening
and they had the truck full of people all with their rucksacks and all ready to be
transported for work in the east, and nobody really knowing exactly what was going
to happen, and they brought us to er, a place which had been… oh, it was a Jewish
community hall or something like that.

Interviewer: In Breslau?

In Breslau, yeah.

Interviewer: Did you know anybody on the original transport that you… when they picked you
up, did you know other people?

[He blows his nose]Yeah, I knew a few people, not too many but I knew a few, and
they just told us to get in there, and almost everybody had food, and they had
some... provided some cots, but most people just made themselves comfortable on
the floor, and more and more people came and I would say that by the time it was
completely crowded and jammed packed, there might have been some two and a
half to three thousand people in there, and we remained there for three days, there
were some toilets, not enough for the two and a half thousand people, but it was
bearable, and then one morning, I think after two days, I dunno, it was the third day,
they woke us up, very early in the morning, there also were outside of that, a steady
stream of non Jews, who were coming by with paper bags and packages, so to
speak, and was guarded, this place was not guarded by the SS at all, it was
guarded by a lone police men, who was obviously looking the other way,
because a lot of stuff was being passed into that gathering and a lot of non Jews
who came by, the word had passed around that…
Well, in any event, this morning, I forgot what day it was, but it was in January of
'43, they called out the names, they had made some last changes, it seemed,
deleted some names of Jewish, wounded Jewish war veterans of the First World
War which were somehow pulled out, there were a few of those, they called the
names, everybody dutifully all being good little Germans answered “here”,and they
told us to get in a column of three, and they marched us! Maybe four o 'clock in the
morning, through the street of Breslau with a minimum of guards, maybe, I don 't
know how many policemen there were, not very many, to the railroad station, where
there was a train waiting, with covered cattle cars, and they loaded us on to them,
and, probably, I mean, nothing like what has happened to the Jews of Salonica or
Hungary, these were German policemen, and there were maybe fifty to a car, not
exactly.
Interviewer: Fifty?
Fifty.
Interviewer: Fifty...er…
People.
Interviewer: People in each car.
Yes, yes. But I mean, there were other trains of other transports where they had a
hundred to a car. We got there with our rucksacks, and the train stood there for I
don 't know… I forgot, and eventually got going. And here 's maybe my very first
piece of luck: now, Breslau is not very far from Auschwitz, I would think Breslau
might be… oh, gosh, sixty, seventy miles.
Interviewer: Sixty or sixteen?
Sixty.
Interviewer: Sixty.
Or seventy miles. Maybe somewhat longer. Maybe a typical train ride, under normal
conditions of three hours, and this train started moving very, very slowly, and
obviously the train traffic through Silesia because this is where it was, to the
east...er… had priorities over this train with this two and a half, three thousand jews
in it, in these cattle cars, so it took, now I forgot, a day, twenty four hours and that 's
nothing. This is nothing, because there were transports that came from Salonica
into Auschwitz, that travelled for fourteen days, without food, water or anything.

Interviewer: Did you have any food on your train?

Well, we had our rucksacks with us and everybody had some food, and I think we
had some water, I think a bucket was... appeared miraculously, or was it a big can,
and it was used to urinate in, and then there was a tiny hole on the floor of that
cattle car, and then it was carefully emptied out there and everybody did that, you
know, men and women, but there were only fifty. Oh, to tell you, in comparison with
what was to come this really...and then the names started to change all the people
that were familiar with the area, and they sort of peeked out, all this cattle cars had
a little cut opening were you, somebody could peek out by standing on somebody
lifting somebody, and we knew we were traveling, first was Silesia, then through
upper Silesia, the names started to get polish and then came Katowice, which is
Kattowitz, and so we knew we were traveling into Poland, I really don 't remember
how long we traveled, but it wasn 't something that impacted on me that much as it
would be on older people, where this was already life and death.
Interviewer: Did the train make any stops?
Oh, Yeah, lots of stops.
Interviewer: You were not allowed off?
Oh, no, no… the trains were sealed, I mean sealed in the sense, its cattle cars you
have these sliding doors and well there 's one of them that they have just put up in
the Yad Vashen that they got from the Polish government, a German cattle car,
exact replica… not replica… exact one of these cars.

Interviewer: During the time you were on this transport, what were you thinking, do you
remember what you might have said to somebody in the car?

Oh… we thought we would be building roads, and be in some sort of barracks and
building roads and some day we were going to work, you know, but really we did
not dwell on it, that I can recall, maybe some people did. Now I am what… I 'm
eighteen… yes. Eventually the train came to a halt, and then it goes backwards,
we 're being backed into something, well, with hindsight today I know it was a
famous ramp in Auschwitz-Birkenau.Well that train backed and then it stood there,
and it stood. It was the next night, we had left in the morning and it must have been
the next night because it was night, and then all of a sudden, the doors flew open or
rather been pushed to the side and this “Raus,raus,raus” and that means “out, out,
out”. And there really for the first time...well, I am young, and agile, so to me, to
jump from the train on to the ground is nothing, but there are SS men in front of this
with their truncheons and just hitting, hitting, hitting without rhyme or reason, and
there are older men, and they 're people who have worked and older men and
they 're getting beaten and this “raus,raus, raus” and “schnell, schnell, schnell” meaning
“fast, fast, fast”, and utter, utter chaos, women and children and the screaming
starts as the beating…..Its an unbelievable scene, what you see when you jump
down is lights, all over the place like… almost like in a ball game… big lights, and
these are really the lights of the... thing of… Birkenau, of the electric fence, but
you don 't know that, you don 't know what 's happening, with this “schnell... fast, fast,
fast, out, out, out, you know, you jump out, and when you 're out you wind up before
somebody, and I often wondered whether it was Mengele or not, but it was an SS
officer with his shiny boots, and white gloves, and, an immaculate black SS
uniform, and he was just taking one look, just… left, right, left, right, middle... You
know and… I was sent to the right even though I didn 't know what it meant, except
that I realized quite quickly that it was all males and there were no women there,
there were no children and that I was one of the youngest, probably not but, one of
the youngest looking. And so I'm in this column, and there are these three columns
and one is young women, and one is women with children or older women and not
necessarily that this was an exact science, you know, there were young women
who had children and they were not going to get separated from their children, so
there were no questions asked, you had a child, you went into the middle, it meant
nothing, nothing to us anyhow, meant that maybe these people would go by truck
while you might have to walk, if you were young. And I don 't know how long this
took but, couldn't have taken more than an hour, when they had these three
separate columns of people standing there, then these trucks came and they were
panel (?) trucks, “aufsteigen, aufsteigen” which means “on the truck, on the truck” and again
this...SS men with their truncheons, hitting those people in the back so that there 's
this tremendous crush in front, of people franticly trying to get up, and again I 'm
lucky, again I 'm young and agile, I have no trouble getting up, and those who have
trouble getting up, get badly beaten, and we are… What for? Why? Why? You
know… what have we done? You know… I don 't know, know how many we were, I
would say about six hundred men, and the trucks takes off, and behind there is this
tremendous screaming of the children, the little children. You can 't forget that
scene, it 's surreal, you know, it 's... you can never forget it, the screaming is
overwhelming of these children and the women, but the trucks take off, and not
very long from Buna Monowitz to Ramp of Auschwitz-Birkenau I think, is it ten kilometers,
six miles.
Interviewer: You were taken to, what part of Auschwitz, would you tell me?
I 'm at the ramp in Auschwitz-Birkenau
Interviewer: O.k. and you were taken…
Every transport winds up there.
Interviewer: And you were taken on these trucks to where?
Still in civilian clothing…
Interviewer: Right
Well, we didn 't know where, but it turns out it is Buna, bunamanawiz, Auschwitz
three.
Interviewer: Auschwitz three, O.K. you said it was about six…
I think it 's about six miles…
Interviewer: ...from the ramp...from Auschwitz-Birkenau
I never saw again. That was my Auschwitz-Birkenau connection that I ever had with
the gas chambers of Auschwitz-Birkenau and of course, at that time I had
absolutely no idea of what is happening, whether this was the ramp. I saw the
“Arbeit maicht frei” but only because it was tremendously illuminated but for the rest
I never saw Auschwitz-Birkenau from the inside, thank God. Instead I found myself
going through another gate, another highly illuminated fence, double fence, and the
guard post towers all around, and again “everybody out, everybody out” and, we
jumped out, no hitting at that point, we were taken to another big barrack and
squeezed, I think we were about six hundred people, huge barrack.
It had a number?
It probably did, but I don 't remember it. We were all in our civilian clothes, and of
corse we had left, when we jumped out from the train, of corse it was... “all baggage
on a pile” you know... that was the first thing... you know, so I dropped my rucksack,
“everything” you know, so all I have is my civilian...my clothing and whatever I have
in my pockets and oh about I think I had 150 Marks, not very much, but to me it was
a veritable fortune in any event, and we get into these barracks in the bearing (?) and
we 're being told “all money, all rings, all watches” nobody had any more gold
anyhow, but all money and all watches, we still had watches into this thing that was
handed out, it was like a bucket and these SS men in there, and so it is amazing
how reluctant people are to part with their miserable valuables I didn 't want to get
rid of my hundred dollar marks, my hundred marks….bill.. You know, silly… I figure
how can I keep it, how can I keep the hundred marks as if that would have done me
any good, I actually kept it but I 'l tell you a little bit later how I did that, but in any
event people reluctantly take off their watches and their bill folds and throw, so then
this… some people coming and they wear these striped clothing and these beret 's
and they 're saying “schnell,schnell, everything put in everything” and they helped along
and they have truncheons and they start hitting and they get very quick action now
all this money everything is coming out I 'm still holding on to my hundred mark bill
in my pocket and then the next thing is, take off all your clothing, and again another
teutonic passion for quickness, I 'v never understood why everything had to be…
quickly nothing ever… you could never walk to anything, you know, it had to be
quick, quick, quick, quick, and then you waited, and waited. So everybody takes off
their clothing and it 's this... “your going to take a shower” and now the door 's being
opened and there 's a big room with shower heads and we 're being driven into it,
naked and lets see are we getting shaved before or after that event... I don 't recall...
I think it is before the shower yes, all of a sudden they appear, the Friseur, the
hairdressers or hair cutters rather, O.k. and before you know what 's happening we
were being told… “sit down” and they shave…they with their clippers they take off
your hair.

Interviewer: What were you thinking?

Your not thinking, by that time you 're in a shock, you don 't
think, you 're in an absolute total shock, what is happening, O.k….And stood up and
your pubic hair is being removed, and then your going up to... No, no that 's it
right… and then it is the shower, I might have reversed the order, I don 't know, it
doesn 't make any difference, oh yes, one other thing… “take off everything, except
your shoes and your belts, keep your shoes and your belts”, and I had wonderful
very solid leather mountain shoes and it was obvious I could keep them.

Tape 4 of 10

We left off on the last tape talking about how you were standing in line, you were
told to undress and the only thing you were allowed to keep on were your shoes
and a belt and you were going to tell us the story about the hundred marks.
I was held… we were tightly compressed naked because we were, the room was
fairly small and for that many people and so it was not all that difficult to hold in your
hand an item... like a bill...[he blows his nose]... without it being seen, and when
they said “keep your belts on, and keep your shoes” I just very tigh…. folded this
one bill very, very, into very, very small rect…..thing…little roll, and I shoved it
behind my belt buckle, which was a sort of a compact... big belt buckle that you can
see today, and I kept it there... [he blows his nose]… and ultimately I bought a
bread with it, it was my first “organization” as they said in the camp, but in any
event we had some cold water that was rushed over us, it was a shower, no soap,
no towels, and then we were all chased outside and it is January, and cold, and
we 're wet, and tired and shellshocked. By that time there are no SS around, its all
done by inmates. Well, we start jumping around to keep warm and after a while, it
seemed like eternity, but I really don 't know how long it was, and very, very cold and
frozen. We were sent back and this time, there are other zebra striped people
sitting there and they have a needle, with ink in it, and you are being told to sit
down, and within less than half a minute you find yourself having a number tattooed
on your left forearm…

Interviewer: What was your number?

Hundred and six, nine, nine, two 106992
Interviewer: And what was that like for you having the number put on your arm?
Well, by that time your so demoralized, and so, and I think that is of corse the total
propose of this whole procedure, that you cannot believe what is happening, this...it
is cuf… like cuf cuf...cuff cut you know its unbelievable, what goes through my mind
today fifty two years later, I wouldn 't have the faintest idea, shock. And then with a
number and naked, in your shoes, and a belt, er… your being told to leave out…
and there are again some zebra uniforms and they throw you something, and
something else, and something else, which your supposed to catch and it makes no
difference whether your six foot or four foot, and it is all “schnell, schnell” and
clutching this bundle of what it appears to be, zebra uniforms, your being told to run
towards a barrack that is not all that far away and you do that and you wind up in
another barrack and that was, for me at least, block twenty-five, barrack twenty-five.
Interviewer: Could you describe it for me?
Well, Buna Monovitz consisted of barracks that were quite uniform, at least at that
time, they 're wooden barracks, they have windows, they have actually a heating
coil running at the bottom of the barracks, so the barracks are heated, there are…
the barrack is divided into two parts, one which is called a Tagesraum, which is
an area about, I would say fifteen feet by fifteen feet, or approximately. And then
then the rest is a barracks in which there are bunks, very close together three
bunks to a... approximately one hundred and fifty cots… so it must be fifty…
probably fifty bunks per row.
Interviewer: Where were you, on the top... or the…?
Well, that is, I, oh no, I got a one on the bottom, I got one at the bottom and there
are already only accommodations for about a hundred and fifty people, but since
we were three barracks, I must think we were about two hundred assigned to each
barracks so that there were fifty people who had to double up, and the ones who
were doubling up is the top people, the top, and there is somebody… there is… we
really are not yet… we 're newcomers and we 're totally green, and we have not the
slightest idea really, where we are and what is happening. We know that we are
prisoners and we are totally shocked of everything that is happening. Men who had
come with their wives and children were still asking, “when are are wives and
children coming?”. And all this happened, all on this, by that that time its daylight.
That all from that night that we arrived, till that morning. And there 's a man that
comes and he 's called “the block-eldester” he 's the head of the block, or head of
the barrack…
Interviewer: What was his name?
This ones name was Bruno,
 And actually my transport... there were all hundred six and hundred seven
thousand number... prisoner number... populate these three barracks that had
been... just been constructed and added to the camp, and he tells us that we are in
Buna, Auschwitz-Buna, which is a concentration camp. But he said “this is a work
camp and you can survive here if you work” and he said that “I 've been in the camp
for four years, not here” he said... because Buna only existed, I guess for a year
before that, he said “you will be hungry and there will not be much food, but it is
possible to survive”, that was a statement that maybe strictly speaking was true but
not for the vast majority of the people who arrived there. But it was true for some
people, like myself. And he said...well,of course we had been told to get into the
things that were thrown to us and I had one of these prison uniform jackets and it
was grotesquely too large, I was only 5.4 , and I was very thin as a kid, and
everything was rather large on me, but then there were others who had stuff that
was rather small on them because they were 6 foot et cetera, and so we started
exchanging large for small, and I was lucky enough to exchange the stuff that I had
gotten with somebody who was much larger than I was and so that thing fitted
somewhat. Consisted of a shirt, a jacket quite dirty, a pair of dirty pants, what has
gone through disinfection and it still had that smell of disinfecting that you have
when you disinfect something, it hadn 't been washed, it had just been disinfected,
had my belt and my shoes and I didn 't wear glasses, oh, people, if they wore
glasses, could keep their glasses also, and then we were told to come out, we
heard a bell and we saw that we were in a large camp and that there obviously was
a routine of people assembling and being counted, and winding up on a huge…
what it 's called apellplatz, and that they were marching in columns of five and we
were told to became a column of five and we were marching on this apellplatz, this
was block 25, and we 're standing there in the cold with this very little clothing, bitter
bitter cold, and we 're standing there for maybe half an hour and then some SS men
comes who 's a block fuhrer and block elderstest takes off his hat and says that this
is block 25 and it has two hundred whatever Haftling in it, which is the name for
prisoners, and the SS man goes past us, and of course being five, you know, he
doesn 't count because he knows, that if this block gets to two hundred and ten
prisoners, that 's what 's going to be there. And this has been repeated for everyone
of this barracks, called “blocks”, and then there is a command that says Abbruken
which means “start to march”, and this whole thing of… but by that time must have
been about ten thousand people, music all of a sudden appears, Rosamunda, you
know Rosamunda? And to the tune of Rosamunda and some others similar
marches…
Interviewer: What 's the tune?
[he sings] Rosamunda ta-da-ta-da-ta-ta-da...no?
[he laughs] Well, if you don 't know it, it 's not a great cultural achievement, so in any
event this is marching out there these thousands of people in rows of five, it 's very
strange for us, but by that time we had a pretty good inkling that we are going to
became prisoners like those, and also there are the first rumors that those that
were separated from us, in what is called Birkenau, are already through the
chimney, and this is again an unbelievable shock, what do you mean through the
chimney, and, you know like, two green horns “well, what do you think it 's
happening here, and these people that were women and children they were sent to
the gas chamber immediately and in fact that whole transport has already been
gassed, and of course to those men who had come with their relatives, and thier
women and children, their mothers or what have you, it is an absolutely
devastating… and it impacts in such a way that within a day or two quite a few are
going into the Draht as its called, I mean, the electrified wire fence, where they
are electrocuted
Interviewer: Did you see that yourself?
Oh yeah, I saw them hanging there, I didn 't see them going in there, because you
cannot release yourself, you see, once you touch it the voltage is so high that
you 're unable to release so it holds you there, you keep on hanging there, you
know, in order to get off it, you know, the current has to be interrupted because
you 're becoming part of the current flow. But even those that, you know, are
surviving are, you know, they decline, their mental decline has started at that
point…

Interviewer: What about you?
Well, I had a great advantage I had nobody on that transport who was gassed, I
had no parents, no brothers or sisters, children, I 'd not been married, I was young
and so I personally had nobody that was in the group that was gassed. I knew
people but to me it was maybe my second lucky break, if you can call it a lucky
break, but you know, everything counted in essence, you know, and if you had this
to carry on your shoulders in addition to everything else it might very well be, the
whatever killed the golden egg or something like that, the goose that killed the
golden egg. And then we were being instructed to the procedure of what is called
Mutzen Auf , Mutzen Ab Which means to put your beret on and take it off when, when
you take it off you sort of clap it against your thigh so that if two hundred people do
it simultaneously you 'll get a sort of a military sound of, er, how should I say, distinct
sound which the Germans loved. And this is being practiced for about an hour, two
hours till everybody got it, and then we 're being told “tomorrow you 're going to go
out on commando”. Curiously enough although we had had nothing to eat since all
this, nobody 's hungry. And we spent the rest of the day in this barrack, and I don 't
recall anymore exactly, how we felt or how I reacted, I guess I was as shocked as
everybody else, thats all, and I said I had been given a cot in the middle of this
three thing and I didn't have to share it with anybody but about seventy five percent
of the people didn't have to share it at that point, only about twenty five percent had
to share… and comes the evening, we hear the band is playing again and
everything marches back into the camp and again we march out on the apellplatz,
for a second accounting, and it lasts forever, and when it 's over they say
“Abtreten” one marches back to the block. And this is how my life as hundred sixnine-nine-two began. [He laughs] And er…
Interviewer: Did you have any friends in the barrack, that you talked to?
No real friends, I had people that I knew, that I had known but nobody that came
from either the school or the hacksara (?) or any of my immediate friends, I knew quite
a few people but none that…
Interviewer: Did you make friends with…
No, not immediately, no, and I think that was so much the better, I think to survive
you had to do it, pretty much on your own. It er, was very, very difficult to, well there
were of course friendships that had formed long before that in ?????? (?) that later on
formed in the camp, you know, but by and large it was not necessarily an
advantage, I would say. But at this point, in any event I did not have any friends tho
within a few days I learned where other people that I had known from the hacsara (?) 
and were from Berlin had come and they were not… they were in another block but
I linked up with them, and thats where I met some people, Meckey (?) very good, a one
who really became, and was even before a good friend of mine, and sort of we
went through the camp together, and... Well... I…
The next morning came and I had been trying to think what my first commando
was, and it was not... Well at first one has to describe really to understand what a
commando is and how this works is er that Auschwitz Buna is a camp associated
with a huge construction ground, a factory that is being built by IG FARM one of the
big chemical cartels before the war, in the world, one of the cartels... and the fact
that together with British Chemical Limited and Dupont and IG Farm, I think pretty
much had this... divided the world market prior to the second world war, among
themselves. And they were going to build, and we are building, in fact a factory to
make synthetic rubber, and thats where the term Buna came from because Buna
was the name for synthetic rubber and although I 'm not a chemist, my
understanding that this was going to be accomplished through coal, coal of course
was one of the raw materials that was abundant in the region, upper Silesia is
known for its coal mines, and so I guess it was logical for IG Farm to build this
factory there if coal is what they were going to use, its my understanding that no
synthetic rubber was ever produced in this factory but that is a different story.
But I think my first job was taking out and the commando was fairly small, was
about forty people all Jews from Breslau, and we were deposited and it was outside
of what they called the “puss??????” (?) that means... this whole factory was enclosed
by wire, a fence, not electrified... and there was a “pusste?????” (?) that means,
soldiers, that were every what, er, hundred fifty feet maybe so that inside this huge
compound they didn 't have to guard you, and you could put tens of thousands of
people there and you guarded them all through this outside chain of soldiers.
 But this particular work site was outside that wired enclosure, and so we had our
own soldiers, who were about four, three or four who had marched out with us and
of course they were immensely bored and they... Work consisted of digging a
foundation with spades, there were no power tools.
And so these forty Jews from Breslau, who probably had never seen a spade
before in their lives, started digging into the mud, and lifting this mud up, and then
some others came and carted it away. And, I had held a spade in my hand before,
but gosh was I miserable, but so was everybody else.
And the soldiers who were standing around that pit, sort of, were very bored and
they were going every so often into a hut, which was a sort of a construction hut,
ostensibly to warm themselves.
And I'm there with my spade, and one of them calls me and says “hey you, come up
here” so I got up, he said “get in the hut, sweep it out, and keep the oven going” all
in German, but of course everybody spoke German in this commando. It was my
break number two, and so what am I when the other people there, they were
digging, I was attached to a de... coal bin, I went to the coal bin, made sure that the
oven was forever putting out heat. There was a broom that was made out of twigs,
and I swept out the cabin, and every so often the SS men would come in... the
guards and say “look out and see if the sergeant is coming” so I went outside and
looked and no sergeant was coming while they were goofing off and there was
only... one was always looking at the prisoners and that's really all that was needed
because these German Jews certainly wouldn 't have known how to escape, even if
the opportunity would have presented themselves, but it was quite a difference from
having to actually dig the hole with a spade, I was standing outside and looking that
no sergeant was coming, and I was on this commando for about four weeks, the
crucial period of time because it was bitterly cold, and the clothing would let the
cold through, and I had a stove not too far away, and every so often in the pretext of
adding additional coals, I could sneak in there and warm myself. And that same hut
was also used during the lunch time and the food was brought, food... there was a
soup a watery soup, which was some cabbage and turnips swimming in water, and
which was ladled out and each one got maybe a liter of that in the thing that you
had gotten before to keep your soup in, and we drank it because we had not yet
acquired any spoons, because no spoons were handed out, you had to acquire
those independently, as in fact you had to acquire everything independently.

Interviewer: How did that taste to you having that first... that food?

Well by that time the hunger had started to set in, and when you're hungry, really
hungry its amazing what it does to your taste buds, believe me [he laughs].

Interviewer: What do you remember?

Well it tasted lous... you know, it tasted lousy but I didn't get the revolt... feeling that
I would get now, like you want to puke...

Tape 5 of 10

Interviewer: We left off on the last tape, we were talking about the food that you tasted. And I
asked you “how did it taste” to you.

Well I don't really recall how did the food exactly taste since this so called watery
soup was a daily occurrence, and very often consisted of potato peels or even
some old potatoes, and turnips and sometimes some sour cram/cream. It had very
little value from a nourishing point of view, but it was hot, and I guess if you are
hungry, almost anything will do. But at that time I remembered... I didn't remember, I
knew it quite well, I still had my hundred marks, and I went, coming back from the
commando I went to the block-eldester and I said...”I have a hundred marks” and
“would you like it” and he says “where did you get the hundred marks from?” and I
said “well I hid it when we came here” and I told him how and he said “that was very
smart, let me have it” and he brought out half a loaf of bread, and this was a new
barrack, you know....the Tagesraum which is the separate room that is reserved
usually for those that are... have some position... you know. He said “would you like
to become my runner?”... now of course all communications within the camp were
done by runners, in other words if that Block-Altester wanted to get a cigarette
from another Block-Altester or wanted to send a message or whatever, he'd send
his runner. And I said I would be delighted , and I became the runner, and that
probably was my lucky stroke number four or five I don't know. And that meant I
could now get into the Tagesraum which means I could eat my soup, my evening
soup, at a table, and I would get nachslag which means... after the soup was
doled out, of course it was always more soup given to each block that there were...
it wasn't was not accounted for directly... exactly... ????? two hundred people you
know, you maybe got another half a kistle, what ever... vat... you know, because of
the additional fifty people so you might be left with twenty or thirty liters or ten or
fifteen gallons of extra soup, probably even more, and of course that was doled out
to friends and to people who did extra chores, like sweeping the barracks in the
morning, or the night watchmen, there was always a night watchmen or the
bettenbauer which is the people who did this one row of cots that when you came into
the block were sort of laid out like parade block and you had a special team doing
that, and there were all kinds of other chores, but I got this additional thing of soup,
and that permitted me to live better, have less hunger.
Having a job that did not result is spending an enormous amount of energy, and
then coming home and being able to sit at a table and a bench and er... instead of
being crowded in there with the other people, and already you could see, and I 'm
talking about... all this is happening... I guess in the first four weeks, you're still a
newcomer, and you still have a high number, but er... you already can see the
incredible hardship of working outside, as of course the vast majority of my
transport did, most of them transporting things, some transported cement, and
some transported iron pipes and some transported something else and the
transport thing was just stupendous. Now some others had been lucky of getting
some inside job, but those that were outside, and its bitter, bitter cold, with these
minimum... and you had bodies that were so much larger than mine and had a
natural need for a considerably grater amount of food than it was getting, and they
were already wasting away and their moral had already drifted to a point, where
they stopped going to wash themselves, and so they started to smell, and of course
they were being shaved once a week but for the rest of the time if they had a heavy
growth, they forever looked dirty.
And you could tell that these people developed into something that they can, what a
lager called Muselmann and I don't know if you have come across this term Muselmann, but a Muselmann is somebody who doesn't have much longer to go, before
he either dies, while going to work or on his way for some medication or one way or
the other who had no chance because he would wind up to be a skeleton in a short
period of time and you have seen the pictures of those people, and it was the faith,
of the vast majority.
Interviewer: Did you see people die in front of you?

[He shrieks] I don't know how many, hundreds, there were many hundreds... but
death in itself, it stops to have any meaning. I mean you can literally see a man
coming back from work, O.k. dropping dead in front of you...

Interviewer: You saw that?

[Shrieks again] oh. And all the kapo would say “quick two men, grab him head and
foot, and carry him in”...
Interviewer: Did you have to do that?
I was never called to do it, actually, but many others, you know, I mean... were. The
only thing that counted is that you could account for... that you brought back the
same number of people, that you went out with, it made absolutely no difference
whether they were dead or alive.
Interviewer: Did you witness any punishments?
The only... Well, I mean in addition to the punishment within the block, by the blockaltester... no I mean... there were... theft was rampant... O.k... and you were caught
stealing from your fellow inmate, you were brutally beaten
Interviewer: Who did the beating?
Usually either the block-eldest or his stubendienst, which was the guy who was
doing, you know, was like the administrator, he assigned the beds and er... kept a
record of how many people are in the... what the numbers are of all the inmates in
that particular block people, and what commander they're on, so there was
paperwork to be done, and that was done, every block had one man who did that,
which again was a privileged position...
Interviewer: That was a prisoner who had that position?
Always, an inmate, everything was done by inmates. The SS did nothing, the
assignments of what commander your going to work was done by prisoners, the
administration of the camp was absolutely and totally in the hands of the inmates...
Interviewer: Besides Jews in Buna, what other groups of people were there?
Well, the power lay in the hands of the Poles, and later the criminals, and that was
bad news for the Jews because in the pecking order of the concentration camps,
and it was a complex one, but the Jews ranked at the bottom, in the absolute
bottom, and there was a certain pecking order even among the Jews, and there
was certainly a pecking order with respect to the number. The number that you had,
not just the triangle that designated you, whether you were Polish or Jewish or
political or what, but the number you had, after a while when you became familiar
with the routine of the camp told you, where, in the destruction of the European Jewry,
you were. Somebody could look at my number, hundred and six thousand, and he
would know that you were a German Jew who had come from either Breslau or
Berlin or Frankfurt, and that you had come in the winter of 1943, and if you had one
hundred and seventeen thousand that you were a Greek from Salonica, and it
became important because it impacted on the pecking order, the lower your number
the grater your chances of survival because you had found some niche, It was
impossible, absolutely impossible to survive the camp if you did not have... if you
did not find, some little something to keep you alive, over and above what you got
in food, and very often where you worked, which was determinative of whether or
not you are going to live or die, and very often, whether you had leather shoes or
not, because if you had leather shoes and your feet did not get raw, and develop
incredible sores from the wood that was shaving you, so that you were hobbling
and gangrene setting in and all kinds of terrible, terrible foot sores that if you sold
your shoes in the beginning, if you were stupid enough to sell your shoes, you were
sure to die.
Interviewer: But you kept your shoes?
But I kept my shoes, and its funny, one of the first things that block-elder said to us
when we arrived, he said, “I will warn you” he said “do not give your shoes away
regardless how hungry you ever get, and watch them that they don't steal them
because if you have to wear the wooden cupboards”... Really, that they gave you,
they never really fitted, “You will soon find that your feet become terribly sick” and
that was very true.
Well to make a long story short, I was transferred to many commandos but I
learned the ropes, and sometime, oh it must have been the middle of 1943, the
kapo came to me and he said “can you count in German”...“can you do German
math”...and my schooling really had stopped pretty much when I was thirteen, but I
said “Oh yes”... he says “they need somebody up in the bureau” and one thing I
had always done and since I had a little bit more food I'd always been able to, I'd
kept my clothing fairly neat, and since I didn't need to be shaved I sort of did not
look like a Muselmann, like somebody that was going to die.
So he took me up to what was a typical office, and there were four German civilians
sitting in there, and he was, the kapo was very, very deferential and, what was his
name... Schott, I think his name... Schott he said, “Maybe this man can help you” and
Schott was a German civilian in his early sixties and he spoke to me in German...
“where are you from?” I said “from Breslau” he said “can you do mathematics” I
said “well I went to school” he said “well, you been to school” he said “can you
figure percentages?” and I said “yeah” I could figure percentages though I wasn't
quite sure whether I really could, and he said “we'll give him a try” and to make a
long story short, I wound up in this German office, with four German civilians, all of
whom had come from the Loyner works in Frankfurt and mine the huge chemical
combine of IG Farm, where they make gasoline, its a refinery, they all had been
with er... IG Farm for a long, long time, one was a younger man actually, he had
only been at IG Farm for two years, but he was exempt from military duty because
he had a heart problem, and so without going into all the details, I wound up... to
work in this office... joy supreme, calculating for these Germans, whose job it was to
calculate the output of the civilians that were working in Buna, establishing a norm
because many of them were being paid would be called peace work, the norm had
to be calculated, so that if they produced over and above the norm they would be
paid additional moneys, and that was a formula based on what particular thing
these civilian workers did, and then they came... I came up with that percentage
and from that they did further calculations. It had many, many advantages, these
German civilians, the chief of these civilians were the rabid nazi, the oldest man,
he had joined the nazi party in the early '30's portraying a party emblem, but he
didn't mistreat me, except he let me know that all the Jews were shit.
 Curiously enough it seemed that none of these men who lived only a few miles
away from the gas chambers and could really smell the stench that came out of
Birkenhaus especially when the big transports arrived, of Hungarian Jews, where
the arwins (?) ere going day and night and if the wind was right you could smell, yet it
seems that these Germans were oblivious of the fact that within a few miles of
them, daily, thousands of people were being gassed. But as far as my own life was
concerned it took a tremendous turn for the better.
 Among the chores that I had, was to go and get the soup, that was being prepared
for the German civilians, they had a special kitchen and they got soup coupons and
they had a special soup that was being prepared for them, and so came eleven
o 'clock, I always told them it took me at least an hour to get there because of the
long line, which really wasn 't true, but I know that they were never going to check
up on me, I went with that can that held about three, four gallons and depending
who was ladling out that soup I gave these coupons, which of course understood
that these were for German civilians, depending what person was ladling it out I
might get I don 't know, a gallon and a half two gallons of soup to be divided among
these four Germans, who very often wouldn 't eat them and I found myself the
dispenser of soup, first to my kapo to make sure I remained in his very, very good
graces.
Was he Jewish?
No, but he was not a killer kapo, he was a professional criminal who as long as
you did not cause him difficulties, in the sense of directing the attention of German
chiefs and so on it would not, you know…
Interviewer: Do you remember his name?
No.
Interviewer: And who would you give besides the kapo, who else did you give
soup to?

Ernest: Gave to the forabider (?) and Mackey my friend, and I haven't spoken much
about him but I gave him some, and the rest I traded for things that could later on
be useful because Auschwitz was a tremendous trading post, Buna, Buna was a
place that had ten thousand slave workers, inmates of the concentration camp,
thousands of Italians of Poles of Checks, civilians British prisoners of war who had been
captured in Dieppe at the ill fated invasion at Dieppe, I don 't know if you 're familiar with
it, that turned out to be disaster and the entire British commander was taken
prisoners, they all wound up in Buna, and this whole thing was throned over by
Germans who were the… at the top of the pyramid and were running the whole
show, and of course although it was absolutely forbidden to have any contact, with
any of these people, in reality, this couldn 't be enforced, couldn 't be enforced
because the SS after all, were not really inside except for occasional block
führers, but the soldiers were outside and this whole thing was run by… from the
prisoners point of view by the kapos, who of course were also very anxious to
establish contact with the civilian people and er… there were friendships formed,
and I have two friends, who were Czech, from Prague, who befriended a Czech
civilian, also from Prague who, when ever he went to… and both of them had gone
out with non Jewish girls and he contacted these girls and for the next year and a
half he came back with food every time he went to Prague, he brought back food
and what 's more these women sent parcels to their boyfriends, via the Post, via
regular Post, and do you know what, another one of these unbelievable things in
Germany, these parcels were in fact given to these Jewish inmates. And no
question would ask, how do they senders have your address and know where you
are and these two guys survived through the efforts of these two women, they
married them after the war and the communist came (?) they went to South America
where they became very wealthy, but thats a separate story. And I had another
stroke of luck, on one of my trips of, to get this fantastic soup for the German
civilians, I passed a building I 'd always been looking out for the English POW 's
because I wanted to tell them that I had a sister in England and although my
English was very poor, I had learned some of it in school and I knew enough to
say… sister in England... and I had memorized her address, and one day, and I
don 't know exactly how it came about I was watching one p.o.w and they were of
course in their kaki uniforms, and he was, I think welding on a building and he
was all by himself and quite shielded and I watched him for a while and he
motioned me over, I was really waiting for him to drop his cigarette, he was smoking
a players cigarette, and I was waiting for the butt to fall so that I could get the butt, a
very common thing, you know, a butt was a real wonderful delicacy so er... he knew
immediately I was waiting for his butt and he gave me his half lit cigarette and he
said “what 's your name” and I said “Ernest” and I said “what 's yours” and he says
“Ginger” he had red hair, he was a young soldier, d' know, maybe twenty two years
old and I said “I sister in England” and he said “yes” and he said “where does she
live” and I understood what he meant even though... and I said “Birmingham” and
he said “address” and I said “yes” and I gave him the address, and he took out a
pencil and he wrote it down and says to me “write”. So, I kept the look out for him,
and every so often I saw him and I sort of waved and sometime when nobody was
around he would pull me and give me a cigarette and oh, I have forgot how long it
was, maybe two months maybe longer he had called me over and he gave me a
letter, and ten packs of cigarettes and a bar of chocolate from my sister, and I think
I might have been the only… maybe not because it was something you would never
never relate to anybody, you know, would have meant, my life, his life you know, but
I had ten packs of English cigarettes it 's like being given Rockfeller center and I
distributed it, some of it I traded for future favors, many complex things and give to
Mackey and something I gave to one guy from our transport in Breslau I gave him
something to ease his life and some give to me kapo, it went, oh yea and I used…
the soles of my shoes had started to wear very thin and of course there are also
shoe makers in the camp and I had new heavy soles put on my boots, for two
packs of English players cigarettes, so and that later on came again to save my life
on the death marches that took place in 1945.
Interviewer: What did the letter say, that your sister sent to you?
Ernest: The letter just said...”dear Ginger” and I'm paraphrasing now...”I'm so
glad that you are well and with my brother, I hope you are both...” he obviously had
told her that he is with her brother so that it appeared that her brother was another
P.o.w in the camp, and “I'm sending you these ciggs and candy, and hope your
well”... it was very innocuous and said... you know... you couldn't possibly tell
anything from that letter, you know, and Ginger also says... showed me to tear, and
I didn't quite understand the word tear but I knew what he meant, but I didn't speak
English well enough to read all that, and there was one guy in the block whom I
trusted who spoke English and he translated it all for me, although it wasn't really
enough, and after that I destroyed the letter, but in any event, I mean, yeah
Auschwitz, to have a letter from my sister in England, in 1944.
In any event, as you can see, in comparison with the many, many, many others in
that camp, I was enormously lucky. And what is more, that when the time came that
the Russians approached which was in December of 1944, and it became quite
obvious that Auschwitz was going to be evacuated, or at least the rumor had it, it
was going to be evacuated before the Russians arrived, I was in somewhat better
shape, than those that were still alive. Er... there are many, many things in between
its, you know, I mean lots of things happened in between but these are... in any
event came er... the eighteenth of January '45, though I didn't know what date of
January it was but I've since found out it was the eighteenth of January 1945,
Auschwitz was evacuated before the Russians arrived, actually the Russians did
not arrive till nine days later, it was my understanding that they were close enough
even at that time to liberate Auschwitz right then and there and that means that tens
of thousands of people died, because the Russians I was told deliberately
hesitated, I don't know if its deliberate... was deliberate and will never know, but
everything I ever had said, that the Russians could have been there on the
eighteenth of January, before the camp was evacuated.

Tape 6 of 10: starts at 02:29:18

Interviewer: We left off on the last tape talking about when Auschwitz was
evacuated, would you give me the date again, when it was evacuated…
Ernest: It was evacuated on January the eighteenth 1945
Interviewer: And what were you told when that happened?
Ernest: Well you know the SS never felt like they had to tell us anything...
Interviewer: What happened then?
Ernest: They just told us that we are going to be marched out without any other
details but everybody knew, starting already in December you could hear the
rumbling of the Eastern front, you could hear the muffled artillery fire, and since
Buna of course had tens of thousands of civilians, and since I in fact was working in
an office where there were German newspapers, er... we were quite well informed,
as to what was happening at the front, I mean even reading through the German
accounts that were always glorified and always had a shortening of the front-line
and never talked of a retreat but only of shortening of the front lines the names of
the places that they mentioned made it quite clear that the Russians were
advancing. There had also been in 1944 a number of air raids, on Buna...
Interviewer: What was that like for you hearing the air raids?
Ernest: Wonderful, it is hard to believe, even though you know that the little niche
that you have created for yourself in this concentration camp universe, where you
sort of have a chance of surviving, everything else being equal where you know
that you are not in a death commando, where you know that you are not going to
be emaciated because of the world that you... where you have somewhere... hope
of seeing the end of the war, and you also know that i they're bombing the factory,
you might loose it all, because the place where you work might be bombed out, and
sort of vanish into thin air. And yet when you hear that low drone of maybe thirty or
forty or maybe more airplanes high, high over head , way beyond the reach of the
anti aircraft guns and you know that up there are your friends, its a feeling that is
wonderful … wonderful, wonderful... and there were quite a few attacks, I don't
know how many and in fact in one of the last raids the office that I was working at
was bombed to the building and that office was heavily damaged, and I spent about
three weeks trying to look for the wallet of this chief of the... of this office who had
had it in his desk drawer and all this building... part of the building had collapsed on
it and we had to dig it out and trying to find this wallet I'm glad to say... We never
found it.
They did move into another building and to another office, not quite as nice
relatively speaking, like Eden for me anyhow, and I was able to hold on to my job.
But there were casualties but in any event we knew the Russians were approaching
and so in the early morning hours I guess this was on January the eighteenth, we
were told to start marching, we assembled on the appelplatz and having... by that
time being... having a low number by that time, its 1945, I'm a hundred and six
thousand and all these months in between or years in between, huge transports
arrived, of Hungarian Jews, of Greek Jews of Jews from the ghetto all of whom
have numbers up to two hundred thousand, and then starting with A and even B so
I'm already a low number, and I speak the language, and I have accumulated lots of
friends because of my ability to dispense food, the all important thing in the
camp... food. I figured the best thing to do is to be pretty much at the head of the
column that is marching out, because I knew that those that come after, there will
be limited space available for where ever we were going, and the ones that are at
the tail end will find no sleeping accommodations, or anything else so I decided
wisely as it turned out to be pretty much at the head of the column, at least within
the first two three hundred people.
 I had some food, I had some bread, which I had saved, knowing that this
evacuation was coming, I had some cigarettes, I had shoes, designed to last for a
long march. The distance from Buna Auschwitz to Gleiwitz, a town in upper Silesia,
which by the way also had a concentration camp which was called Gleiwitz one and
Gleiwitz two, is sixty five kilometers about thirty eight miles and we set out to
march, it was bitterly cold and was snowing, the snow on the ground was fairly
deep and this march ten thousand people from Auschwitz Buna and another thirty
thousand I would say from Auschwitz main and some side camps in Birkenau all
congregating by foot towards Gleiwitz thirty eight miles away, for the vast majority
of the inmates at that time of the year with the clothing they have and the
emaciation that they had this was not doable, there was no way for most of these
people that it could be done and of course it wasn 't done, they fell like flies some
after only five six kilometers, some lasted longer, anybody who dropped was shot
there was just no ifs and buts. I don't know how long it took us to march thirty eight
miles
Interviewer: Were you with your friend?
Ernest: Yes, I was with my friend, Macky, I was with Macky, and er it seemed like
an eternity but of course we marched without stopping, come to think now, thirty
eight miles at lets say five miles, no you cant make five miles an hour, you can
maybe make three miles an hour... right, in any event I think it took us twenty four
hours
Interviewer: They didn't let you rest at all?
Ernest: There was no rest
Interviewer: Any food?
Ernest: There was no food, there was no water there was nothing, you either kept
marching or you dropped dead and got shot and killed, I don't know what the death
rate was on that march
Interviewer: You saw people dropping behind you?
Ernest: Oh gosh, there were hundreds
Interviewer: I What were you thinking? What was it like for you as you were
marching? What were you doing? What were you saying to yourself?
Ernest: No you don't think, no, you don't think, if you start thinking your gone, if you
start thinking if you let things like this penetrate, you know, if you have any self pity
or if you just even doubt that your going to make it your not going to make it, so if
you think you are thinking at least I have no, maybe I was thinking but today I have
absolutely no recollection of thinking except if there was a possibility of escaping,
and you know what, there was because the SS had to walk next to us and they also
had their big backpacks plus the rifle and they were not in all the good of shape
because they had spent the last two years standing guard without really moving
very much and they were huffing and puffing, I really doubt that they could have hit
me if I would have run off because we were on the road, it was a country road and
the woods were just basically a few feet away, by the time I would have been able
to jump into these woods and appear behind the trees, they couldn't even have
gotten their rifle down from their arms, let alone take aim and hit me but you know I
didn't do it
Interviewer: Why?
Ernest: I don 't know, I really don 't know it was the logical thing to do but the thing
that was bothering me all the time is, as soon that you do get away by that time we
were already in Germany and upper Silesia where do you go? Where do you go,
you have no hair, you have a crazy zebra uniform, you speak German as your only
language, clearly you 're not a soldier, clearly you 're a prisoner and you are dealing
with a population that is still by and large a nazi population and believes in the
victory of the Führer. And it didn 't make any sense to me I thought I would be
turned in, I guess if it would have been in France and I would have spoken French
as I later did or even if it would have been in Poland I would have spoken Polish I
might have attempted it, but the Poles also would have turned me in I think and
thats why I didn 't do it, but I knew the war was nearing an end, hey the Russians
are only thirty or forty miles away or whatever it was a relatively short distance and
in the west the Americans are approaching I don 't know exactly in January where
they were, they were probably approaching the line, but the writing was on
the wall, Germany was fighting a two front war that it couldn 't possibly win, the thing
was to remain alive and to stay alive and to outlast them, and so I made it to
Gleiwitz and the place where we wound up was the old concentration camp of
Gleiwitz which in turn had been evacuated before us so it was empty but it was not
equipped to handle that influx of all the inmates that were going to arrive.
Interviewer: How many of you were actually there when you got to Gleiwitz, how
many do you think survived on your march?
Ernest: When we got to Gleiwitz the camp was empty
Interviewer: No I mean on your march, you said many, many people fell and died,
how many do you think, actually
Ernest: I have no Idea
Interviewer: You don 't know
Ernest: I have absolutely no idea, the figures that I heard later on is that there were
a total of between forty and sixty thousand dollars, (shakes his head) dollars, forty
and sixty thousand people who left Auschwitz, all the camps in Auschwitz and that
they figured that maybe twenty five thousand arrived alive that didn 't mean that they
would stay alive but at least they arrived alive
Interviewer: What happened after you arrived there?
Ernest: I was in the front column and I got a bunker and so did the next few
thousand that came after me I don 't know at what point the bunks gave out, they
certainly did at one point those that came last had no place to sleep except on the
floor in their clothing, well we all slept in the clothing and er it was just another nail
in their coffin and then we remained in Gleiwitz for three days and some soup
was handed out and some bread was handed out and er we knew that we weren't
going to stay there because thats thirty-eight miles distance from Auschwitz was not
going to stop the soviet army and it was just delaying the inevitable for another few
days so we knew that the Germans were going to evacuate us.
The rumors were flying wild, we 're going to go to Buckenwald, we 're going to go to
be sent to Switzerland, Sweden has agreed to accept us, anything would be
believed because you wanted to believe it, we 're going to work inside Germany in a
jam factory, it was a favorite rumor, jam, had sugar in it, it was sweet and everybody
was hungry and somehow a jam factory was a wonderful thing to be in, heaven on
earth, er... of course none of these rumors and I have heard thousands of rumors in
the camps and there were some people that would hang on every rumor that was
being floated and sometimes a joke was a trade you one new one for two, two old
ones for one new one, lawyers who were talking about amnesty and like if you
could have an amnesty to people that were never condemned, you know I mean
things like that but next to the talk about food which was of course a constant in the
concentration camp constant, constant, constant, food, food, food, what you had
eaten when when you were free and how it was cooked and it was what and
it was a dream that forever ever floated in front of you but in any event one
rumour was we are going to go to Buchenwald and then it was another
rumour no we are going to go to Mauthausen, well there was a transport put
together we were told to get ready, we did get ready, this time we were put
into an open cattle car no roof, I don't know how many, gosh, oh there must
have been about eighty in this car when we took off and the snow was still
coming down into these open cars and the train finally took off and you know
I lost time I was standing most of the time but then a lot started to die and we
threw them out and that created room so that we could sit and I don't know
how many days we were in there and we had, I had some bread left we had
no water but one guy had a canteen just a tin thing and somebody produced
some string and we tied the string onto the tin and dangled it down from the
train and as the train moved we scooped up snow and when the snow was in
there we pulled it up and we melted it in our mouth and this is how we
survived with water. I think it took us four days to reach Mauthausen one of
the most incredible terrible camps that ever existed and was in Austria near
Vienna and we knew about Mauthausen because we had received the year
before all these criminals from Mauthausen and they had told us all about
that camp and it was a stone quarry and we thought that this was our death
but we were too tired too weary to care and then some bread was thrown into
the car and everyone made a beeline for it and I didn't get any and nobody
would share whoever was lucky enough to get their hand on some bread
devoured it before anybody else could. And then the rumour came and I don't
know how it started that Mauthausen is totally filled up and they cannot take
us in and the train would leave for another destination and we did and I lost
my eyesight I had my eyes wide open when I was looking out and it was all
black, it was all black and I thought I had lost my eyesight for good and I told
Macky he was on the train with me and I said “I'v lost my eyesight” and so for
the next oh gosh what was another three days I lost total track I really don't
know it was so terrible (he shakes his head and sobs) you just... the train
rolled on and stopped and rolled on and it didn't seem to make any difference
and the snow was still falling and we weren't all particularly cold because we
were still pressed close enough together so that it was a sort of formed like a
mass of people that each one had a little heat to give, body heat whatever it
was (blows his nose). Macky said the names of the places that we are
passing are Czech now so we knew we had left Austria and were travelling to
Czechoslovakia. I really couldn't see I couldn't I tried to keep my eyes open, I
had my eyes opened I couldn't see but Macky told me that as we were
passing these overpasses in Czechoslovakia the passing of the train
somehow was being telegraphed from place to place within Czechoslovakia
and obviously if you were standing on an overpass the sight that you must
have seen must have been something to behold for I don't know how many
cattle cars there were but they were all open and inside you had these zebra
clad skeletons huddled together listless like cows being slaughtered, being
led to the slaughter house and obviously some of these Czechs had come
with bread and they threw that from the overpass into the cars.
 Through our entire trip through Austria where of course you also had lots of
overpasses and lots of civilians see what was passing underneath and
through our entire trip through Germany after we left Czechoslovakia we
would never again receive as much as a slice of bread from any of these
Austrians or Germans that looked down and there were quite a few
overpasses you know how a train route goes, but I, you know I only know that
because Macky sort of kept me informed and most of it sort of passed
through me in a fog and I really... didn't really care what was going to happen
and we did arrive after I don't know how many days I think we had been on
the way now a total of seven or eight days and we got to a place which most
of us hadn't heard of, we were told it was called Dora and it was again
everybody out and er...
Interviewer: Where was Dora?
Eh?
Interviewer: Dora was where?
Dora is near Nordhausen, it's called Dora Mittelbau, it's the tunnels of the
V1 and V2
Interviewer: In Germany
In Germany, in Thuringia... not too far from Aerfort (?), you know where
Buchenwald is er...
it's like German hearts mountains the factory was being blasted into the
hearts mountains to make
them impregnable to the British American air raids which took place on a daily
basis. I don't know
for how long this factory had already been in existence or that the decision to
build it obviously had
been made after the Pedim (?) and Norwegian rocket stations had been
destroyed and the purpose was
of course to come up with that one secret weapon that would turn the war
around and produce a victorious Germany... How stupid can you be... yes they did produce these
rockets, they were notoriously inaccurate, they were fired from the coast of France into England
but they couldn't possibly affect the war. I don't know how many people, how many inmates
there were in Dora at
that time... My eyesight by the way did return after I had been given some
bread and some soup it was obviously one of total physical exhaustion but my eyesight did return and er we again went
through the same routine we had gone through when we arrived originally in
Auschwitz Buna, we were given new numbers...
Interviewer: What was your number there?
I don't remember it wasn't tattooed so I don't have the faintest idea.
Our clothing had been taken away and I had a nice warm sweater that I have lost
at that.
I was cold but not as cold as Poland, it was central Germany, and we were
given new clothing but
all the good posts and all the good sleeping places and everything that you
had so carefully
established for survival, was gone, and you started again at the bottom of the
totem pole, you started
again in a total alien environment where you had no access to any sources of
extra food or sources that
were powerful within the administration...
Interviewer: Were you in a barracks there or were you inside the tunnels?
We were assigned to a barracks, assigned to a barracks and we were
sleeping two to a bunk
What were the, describe the conditions in Dora...
It was something that you knew you couldn't survive, there was no doubt we
had been long enough
in camp to know what was feasible and what was not, and that was not
feasible.

TAPE 7 OF 10 STARTS 02:58:52
Interviewer: 1995
On the last tape we talked about the conditions at Dora...
Well the next morning we were led into the tunnel formed into commandos
and assigned work eh as
best as I can remember I was assigned to a brick commando, it was a
commando that hauled brick
to Italian civilians who were brick layers and who were building god knows
what inside the tunnel
with bricks. I figured maybe somebody had that... maybe there was a master
plan of how this V2
factory was going to function and of course there were parts of the tunnel I
understood that were
already fully productive and making these flying rockets but the part that I
was in... I never saw a flying rocket.
So you never saw any sabotage?
Never saw any sabotage, I never even saw a flying rocket. I knew that's what
they were making there and maybe it was from the other end of the tunnel but the end I was
working at they were
building something, maybe they were enlarging it, who knows and I couldn't
care less because I
knew they were never going to have any rockets out of that portion where I
was working, by now its
February by now the Americans have crossed the Rhein and the Russians have
surrounded my home
town Breaslau and I knew it was only a question of time until they are going
to be... I do not know
weather they would liberate me, weather there would be time, weather I
would be dead by then but I
know they were going to liberate me (he smiles)... well I said to Mackey.
The work was brutal even if it was only carrying bricks, the work was brutal.
The food consisted of just one litre of soup and nobody could exist on that
and I said “Mackey we
have gotta get out of this camp” because we are not going to survive here,
we are going to be
muzzlemans(muzzle men) very quickly, and luckily enough there was a
constant transports that
were being put together and going to be sent in all directions, god knows
where, I said “it can
anywhere else, it can't be worse than this. Where ever we go it's gotta be
better, lets just join a group
that's preparing to go on transport and go, where ever it goes ” so we... there
was this long line and
there is SS man in front of the line and he is deciding who is going to go on
that particular transport
to where ever, but we had been in the camp long enough to know that where
ever these transports
went it was always good to be a specialist even if you had absolutely no idea
in the world of the
particular speciality that you said you had, it made no difference. So it came
my turn and the SS
man says “beruf” meaning profession as like if you had a profession and I
said “locksmith” and
what I know about smithery you can write on a thumbnail and he waves me on to
go on the transport
and Macky my friend is behind me and he doesn't want to say locksmith
because I just used that so
“beruf” to Macky profession and Macky says “electrician” another one of the
professions that were highly regarded, when nobody ever really worked at it... And the SS
man says “No we need you here” and he's not chosen and I'm heartbroken...
(he breaks down in tears saying)... I wanted him to come and he didn't come
and I never saw him again and he died and only because he said electrician...
I'm sorry (blows his nose) … And I went on the transport and it wound up in
Mauthausen the other
side of the same fucking tunnel and there was a camp that had not even
existed six months earlier
there were army garages that had been quickly outfitted with bunks, nothing
else, bunks, bunks,
bunks in these garages and the barbed wire... the electrified barbed wire
thrown around it and some
miserable little kitchen established and there were about six thousand people
in that miserable place
and it went back into the tunnel I guess from the other side... I never looked
at a map to exactly see
how the building plans of the German master race coincided and how they
were going to work from
various directions tunnelling into this mountain to build their flying bombs and
the food was as bad
as it had been in Dora though there were less inmates there and wasn't quite
as crowded and I guess
we are in March by now and the days sort of melt into each other that you
loose time and dates and
you just know that the war is ending, and you just know that you are probably
not going to make it
and you are sort of see yourself wasting, your weight going down very much
but its the fate of
everyone around you and people dying very very quickly... at... I don't know
its another little train
that takes you into the tunnel from Mauthausen you stand at daybreak, it's
getting a little bit warmer,
waiting for the train, you get loaded up into these cars and there's SS men on
every one of these
little kabukis that they have on these trains and you are being ferried into the
tunnel and you move
stones, I think it was at that end of the tunnel I moved stones, but the work is
very very slow
because nobody has much strength and you can tell that nobody cares really
any more even whether
you work or not, everybody knows the end is near. But the people are dying
at such a quick rate that
by the end of March and I don't know what date they announce that there will
be no further march
out to work in the tunnels it had become economically... not economically
feasible to do it seems
because while they had started off six thousand people I think we were only
fifteen hundred left
some three weeks later and these fifteen hundred probably all combined
couldn't do the work of
one hundred healthy men and so we were kept at Mauthausen in the camp,
receiving a litre of soup
in the evening and a slice of... tiny slice of bread in the morning not
expending any energy, and the
days passed and you wonder where the heck are the Americans, and they
aren 't coming, and they
aren 't coming, and they aren 't coming and it is the end of March and then the
beginning of April
and I don't know the date. You hear the airplanes whether Americans or
English I don't know,
roaring overhead, everyday... but their targets were different from ours, they
were different I mean
than where we were, they were just flying overhead, but you knew they were
friendly planes but
then one day and it must have been in the first week of April or maybe a little
bit before the sirens
again... and sirens were all the time and you didn't even react to those
anymore you were in no
mood to you didn't have the place to go to begin with unless you wanted to
hide yourself
underneath a bunk and what good would that do. But that day that morning
all of a sudden you hear
bombs falling and they're falling onto the camp, they're falling onto what used
to be the barracks
and there are quite a few and they 're incendiary bombs and they set the
barracks on fire and they have
this gel that is... spreads when it... when the bomb explodes and then burns
and adheres to
everything that it touches and there's a lot of screaming and a lot of prisoners
on fire...
You saw that?
Oh yeah and you see them burning from the gel although I didn't know at that
time it was gel but
you know there were bombs and the barbed wire is torn in many places and
the SS which had dug
underground shelters for themselves... outside the barbed wire... are all hold
up underneath there but
some of the bombs came close enough to kill quite a few of them too.
It was a relatively er short attack and nothing happens this night... this day in
the barracks that...
there were a number of barracks and mine the one I was living... ... had not
been dir hit... directly hit
though the adjacent one was, we stayed there and the ones that survived the
one from the one that
was hit came into our barrack and everybody huddles together, there 's no
soup or anything and the
night comes and we are too exhausted and er we just fall asleep and figure
what ever comes comes
and nothing comes that night and the next morning the sirens start again and
by that time panic,
figure there is going to be another attack on the camp, of course the Allied did
not know that what was
underneath there was er... renovated concentration camp that these were
army barracks that had
been renovated... had been made into a concentration camp er... but
everybody starts running in all
directions you know I really have no particular plan but I get outside of the
barrack and right in
front of me there is what was the electrified barbed wire and it is hanging
loose and there is a
gaping hole and I see no guard post or anybody... though I see some SS men
running away from the
whole thing and then I see some inmates climbing over this barbed wire
because it was not a neat hole and starting to run outside and I followed them and I keep
running, there are other
inmates that are running in the same direction and then I hear the low hum
drone of the planes
overhead and then you hear the release of the bombs and as they cut
through the air before they hit,
there are quite a few and I'm running in this open field and I don't stop and I
keep on running and
there are bombs falling obviously onto the camp and even one or two not all
that far away from me,
but I just figure I keep on running or at least it seemed to me I run forever and
then I finally drop
into a sort of a furrow not far away from the beginning of a forest and there
not far away from me is
a dead civilian who obviously had been killed the night before... the day
before and must have been
an Italian because he wasn't a prisoner he had hair and he wore an old
dilapidated Italian army
jacket and non de script (?) trousers and a grotesque hat and I figured im free...
they might catch me
again but I will do nothing that will help them to catch me and I take off my
striped zebra uniform
and roll him over had laboriously and it wasn't easy believe me there 's
nothing worse than a dead
body... to undress a dead body is terribly... very very difficult because he had
already... rigor mortis
had already set in but I managed to tear his things off and I managed to tear
his pants off and my
shoes are still with me and I put his things on and they are much to large for
me but all of a sudden
I'm a civilian and I look around from this furrow and I see in the distance
people but nobody seems
to take any notice of me and then I see there 's about one hundred feet away
a pile of paper flying
into the air and there obviously seems to be some source because it was a
little windy... but I see
these papers sort of like a wind catches them and they start flying around and
since I always needed
something to clean myself with since toilet paper was never provided I
thought this would be a
wonderful source of toilet paper and I approach it and I see its a bundle of
about one hundred
rectangular pieces of paper about five by seven and it says in German
“Germans throw away your
weapons the war is over... surrender... the Americans are I don't know where
the Russians are
approaching your Führer has deserted you” and it went on like this it was the
most wonderful message I
had ever received in my life, it was a flier they had dropped didn't do much
good out in the field in
that barren field it was to early yet for anything to have been planted and
grown but it gave me
tremendous, tremendous shutternearm (?). And that's how I escaped from
Mauthausen and I really said
to myself what am I... where am I going to go and I'd walk a little through the
wood and I'd see this
adjacent to the wood there's a country road running a country road and low
and behold that country
road is filled with Germans, old women, young children and old men not a
young man in this crowd
and they are pushing baby carriages filled with personal possessions and
they push anything that
has wheels and they 're obviously civilians that had already started from the
day before and had
been bombed out and were escaping further bombardments and they were
Germans... And I'm at the
edge of the wood looking at that scene and there's this woman and she's
pretty robust, a peasant
woman and she's pushing some sort of wagon and she sees me and she
says “Italiano Italiano' come
here... I start to realise that I'm dressed as an Italian civilian and I speak not a
word of Italian, in fact
I speak no language but a few smattering words of English and fluent
German but I had heard
Italians speak in the camp and I must... I said something to her like 'no
parlaro' or something like
this certainly is wasn't...
(he laughs)
But she didn't know any better than I did... just push... and I looked at the
wagon she has and there
on top of that wagon one big enormous bread... and I come down and she
eyes me suspiciously...
she was pushing... start... pushing and I wasn't very strong so she says to me
push from the back
she'll pull from the front… the wagon is loaded with stuff... I push for about
five minutes looking
for an occasion to make my quick exit with that bread and when the forest
comes a little bit closer
and looks like its a little bit denser... I make a dive for that bread and before
she even knows what's
happening to her I'm gone into the woods and I hear her screaming in
German... Dieb, Dieb, Dieb,
get him, get him, get him... Dieb means thief but none of the Germans on that
road was willing to
chase a thief for a loaf of bread, and I ate the whole bread... in the wood... on
that day.
Well there's a lot of... many many other things that happened during that
day... those days from the
beginning of April till April eleventh which is the day the Americans finally
arrived some things
hard to believe... I meet Peter a friend of mine... no not like Macky but
somebody I had known
before and he too had escaped and he too had miraculously made his way
similarly as I have along
this road and he recognised me and of course I recognised him he too had
acquired some civilian
clothing, of course we have no hair you know and I have this grotesque
Italian cap with a vieser,
which is too large for me and any time somebody would say “take it off” the
gig is up because at
that time it was unheard of not to have any hair, so Peter and myself we say
how, where are we, we
have got to go and reach the Americans, and we knew the Americans are
coming from the West and
the question was, where is West, and how do you tell West, if you have no
sun and we are debating
that question, seriously for quite a while (he blows his nose) and then we
decide that these people
and this road must be going West, though you know it could have also been
going East, but we
followed that road, in the woods, the woods were running parallel and I know
this portion because I
talked with Pete about it when we met in Israel a few weeks ago and all of a
sudden sombody says
“Halt” and out steps a German soldier, out of the woods out of nowhere and
we had already (he
coughs) talked among ourselves, if we are caught what are we going to tell
them, and we came up
with a cock and maney (?) story that is so absurd, that it is hard to believe that
anyone would believe it,
for one thing we are emaciated, we have the most grotesque outfits on, and
we have no hair we only
have one thing going for us, we speak fluent German because he's from
Berlin and I'm from
Breaslau, and we stop, and he says, “Where are you from? Where are you
going to?” and we had
mentioned a little town, that we had heard somebody on the street say that it
was a stop, and he said
“Well, you can't go through here, the America... the Americans are on the
way” and our ears were
sort of (he makes hand gestures suggesting turning or spinning) he said “But
we need, he said how
come you, so he starts a few questions, he sees on the way we talk that we
are obviously German,
“well what are you doing with these clothing”... “Well we were bombed in
Mauthausen all our
clothing were lost and this is all we have”... you know we had obviously... He
said “Well that's all
right, I'l take you down (he coughs) to the lieutenant (coughs again) “You've
learned to shoot,
haven 't you?”... You know it, I know it sounds unreal, do you know, but God it
is the truth and we
say “ah of course, we know how to shoot” and he takes us down and I'm
franticly thinking we've
got to kill him, we 've got to kill him, but he's marching behind us, and we're
two, and I can't
communicate with Peter to tell him it should be done, and so nothing comes
of it...

TAPE 8 OF 10: Starts at 03:28:40

Interviewer: We left of on the last tape talking about the German officer who
was giving you a ride,
and you were deciding what to do about him, what happened?
Ernest: It wasn't an officer, it was a soldier, just an average private, maybe he
was a corporal, I don't
know, but he's not fully trusting, because although we speak fluent German,
we somehow don't look
German, no German looks that emaciated, at this time, but obviously he had
never heard, and I'm
guessing, I really have no way of knowing, about the concentration camp that
was just really,
basically a few miles away, but he's marching us down there, and I figure that
the gig is up, except
these are not SS men, they're the German Wehrmacht, the army, and I figure
well if they don't turn us
over to the SS (he coughs) lets see what happens, but the moment he says
“take off your hat or what
ever take off, or put on the uniform” I figured, but they are going to put us into
a German uniform
and make German soldiers out of us. (he coughs) In any event we come into
what we would call a
command post, and there is a lieutenant, he has one arm, and this soldier
reports “these are two guys” he said “they are Germans and they haven 't, they are not in the Army
because they are
working for the armed services and they are supposed to report, and they are
repairing vehicles”
totally cock and maney (?) story and that 's they reason they are not in the army
and they were going to
report to Luhrbach, I think it was the next town, but Lurhbach is already close
to the Americans and
we don't know if any army unit that they named that is there, the lieutenant
doesn't even let him
finish, he said “two more men, wonderful” he said “I can use two more men”
he said “get them
uniforms and rifles and have them report back” then he said “have you eaten
yet?” and we “No No
we haven't eaten yet” and he says “well make sure they get some... ciao (?)” so
we wind up with each
one getting a bowl of pretty damn good soup, and we are wondering, what
the heck are we going to
do, we have absolutely no plan, and while we are sitting there, maybe half an
hour has passed, a
soldier comes running in and he screams “feind alarm, feind alarm” and that
means “the enemy is
here, the enemy is here” its the alarm the utmost alarm of rushing out and
immediately start
shooting at the enemy, except that these soldiers, the moment they heard
that, there was a
tremendous going and coming and rushing about and nobody took any any
notice of us whatsoever, there 's a sort of a courtyard I remember, I hear motorcycles being
revved up, I hear cars being
revved up, ten minutes later me and Peter we are sitting there with a bowl of
soup, totally alone, and
not a German soldier in sight, that sounds unbelievable and... so we walk out
and we wait, we don't
really know where to go, we see German civilians and then all of a sudden
there are some strange
tanks moving up that country road with a white star on the side, we had never
seen American
troops, we didn't know what they... we went and we were standing there for a
while, all of a sudden
it seems like a whistle is blown, and the whole column... there's an endless
column of tanks on this
road, all with white stars, and... we go down, the whistle blows and the whole
column stops, and we
go down and we see strange clad soldiers and just in front of us is a black
man, a black soldier, with
the tank thing open, peering out, and I had never seen a black man before in
my life, I knew they
existed, in Africa, but I had never seen a black man. I remember when I was
a kid, a school mate
coming rushing by and says “there's a Negro” and I says “where where?” and
he says”just went
down the street” and we chased this for quite a while, and never saw him so
in any event, we go up
there and he looks down on us and he says “Polski” meaning Pole and I said
“No, no, no,
concentration camp” but I said it in German... Konzentrationslager, and he
obviously didn't
understand and he said “do you have any cognac?” (Ernest laughs), that's
what he said, and I'm
standing there and I thought the world would come to an end and say Ernest
Lobet has been
liberated and he's standing here with the Americans and this man says do
you have any cognac, and
then the whistle blows, and the tank things close and the column takes off,
and we're left there,
standing, and our great liberation that we had dreamt about, through endless
days and nights and
years was just then, but things pretty quickly changed, I must say that what
happened is er after this
tank column had passed nothing happened for a while and then all of a
sudden jeeps came, and they
were... bore signs "military government". And we're standing at the side of the
road, wondering what
to do and say, and one of the jeeps stops and a man comes out, seems to be
an officer because you
couldn't tell at that time who's an officer and who isn't, and he asks in
German, in fluent German
“what you're doing here?” and oh we're from a concentration camp, we
escaped and tell him our
story and it's er he looks at us and looks at us very strangely, you know he
looks and er and he says
“why are you in the concentration camp?” And I says “we're Jewish” and he
says no no you're lying
and we said no no we were in the concentration camp he says “do you know
what the Shema Israel is?” and I says yea we know what the Shema Israel is and he
says say the Shema Israel and we say the Shema Israel... He's a German Jew immigrated to the
United States, in the
thirties, went to school here became an officer, sent back to Germany in the
U.S. Army, he says “I
have travelled through half of Germany, I have not found any German Jews
alive, he said you are
the first ones, he said we are going to go into the town of Sondershausen,
which is close to where we
had walked too and we are going to establish a military government there,
and he said I'm not going
to be there but once you get to military government, you tell them you're story
and they'll take care
of you. And we do go down to town and true enough there's already all kind of
guys with M.p.
Armbands there putting up all kinds of notices to the German population, and
we go up to one of
the M.P's who speaks Yiddish, thinks... he thinks he speaks German but what
he really speaks is
Yiddish, we have no trouble of course speaking to him, and we tell him our
story and out he goes
and comes back with the first carton of C-rations that I'd ever seen, you know
what C-rations are...
and he gives that to us and he says er we're going to be at this hotel the only
hotel outstanding in
town, was a fair sized hotel, he said you go there and I'll be there in a while
and we go there Peter
and myself and we are getting two hotel rooms one for each... for us and we
have this carton of C-rations
and we have been given cigarettes and we are in seventh heaven, liberation
has arrived. And
we stay in this town for about a week, and then we are being told that the
Americans are going to
withdraw that this is part of Germany that is going to be seated to the Soviets
and if we don't want
to be there when the Russians come we should make other plans.
Now, let me see, the liberation was the eleventh we must be now have
reached more than a week,
must be at least the twenty fifth of April or something like that, I think Hitler is
already dead,
Germany has not formally surrendered yet, but all the... many of the camps
have been liberated,
Buchenwald has been liberated, Mauthausen has been liberated,
Bergenbelsen etc... big headline
news, people start to know what this is all about, we don't know... well we
obviously want to leave
you know, but where are we going to go and we go to see the captain of this
military police squad
that is in charge of that town, actually it's military government, the MP, the
Jewish MP who turns
out to be of Polish Jewish origin from New York and a cop and civilian life in
New York is
interpeting for us and this captain who is of Polish decent but er a Jewish,
looks at us and says
“Well, where do you want to go?” and we say “Well I don't know, you know
where we should go?”
and the captain says “Yea, you know what, I just came back from Paris where
I had rest and
recuperation its a wonderful city” he said “Why don't you go to Paris?”... “Well
how are we going
to get to Paris?” He says, “I'll tell you what” he says “We're in the process of
putting a transport
together, in which we are going to take all the French men the French
workers the Belgian workers
and some of the Italians and all.. send them all out towards France to
Belgium and to France, why
don't you join it?” and I said... that sounded very good to me and I said well
we have no papers, he
says “Well, no problem, there's an old typewriter here, there's a secretary
some sergeant, he tells
him something in English, what to write, which I don't understand, and the
sergeant types it out and
then I see him... the captain sign that, he has asked my name and Peter's
name... I'm going to get this
actually, Peter's going to send it to me, because I lost mine, that document.
But in any event it says
Ernst Lobethal and Peter Wolf, can go to Paris, Captain Truglinscky, U.S.
Army... That's what it says.
(Ernest laughs) and we thought that this is the passport to heaven, so we
take this paper which
becomes our most prized possession, by that time we have plenty of food,
and C-rations and
cigarettes and you name it. Martin Sanawits that cop from New York takes us
to one of the store
owners in town who has... had a store selling suits and other things, and he
says, I want, has... had
me translated from Yiddish, “You give this man a new suit” and this German
merchant... Yes, yes,
Jawohl mein herr, yes man, you know SS er... how should I say... what's the word
I'm looking for er...
you know this er... if you're just constantly... bow and you're er you know er...
yes yes yes of course,
anything you want, that kind of thing, you know... So I'm getting a new suit,
Peter gets a new suit of
course its a German war time suit you know made mostly of fibres, but hey
it's a new suit, and we
join the truck that is put together, actually a couple of trucks, and it's a motley
crew of displaced
persons. French men who have volunteered to work in Germany, some ex
concentration camp
inmates, Ukrainians who don't want to return to the Soviet Union and
Belgians, some histories that
you know they don't want you to know, everything goes on this truck, there...
it's actually a convoy
of trucks, partner three trucks and we are being shoved West, and we come
to a town, after about, I
don't know, eight or ten hours in the truck, which stopped quite a few times
and there were...
everybody was in wonderful spirits and that's where we are going to board a
train, that was going to
take us through Belgium to France, and we board the train, and after all kinds
of delays the train
finally takes off and this train... they obviously... quite a few people were very
afraid what is going
to happen to them, because they do not have a very clear conscience of what
they did during the
war , but the train takes off and er... oh we were on the train for quite a while,
but gosh, what a train
ride it was. We reached the German-Belgium border, train stops and there
this German civil service,
believe it or not, is still working, there is this lone border patrol, by that time
it's evening and he's
carrying a lamp in his hand, and he walks along the train, just like any
German official would do,
his duty, and he calls up... “Are there any Germans on board, are there any
Germans on board” you
know and he's being greeted with a hail of curse words in German by French
and Belgians
du schlein hau (?) and bla bla bla whatever, you know and he's somewhat
subdued... you still see him
going along the train and er then the train slowly starts chuck, chuck, chuck
and I call out something
in German like (?) du verfluchte schwein or something like this, which you know... but
of course he picks
up immediately the fact that this is no accent German, and he stops dead in
his track and he says
“There's a German on board, there's a German on board” and as this train
pulls out and I see that till
this day... I see this man running next... with his lamp to the train... There's a
German on board,
there's a German on board, there's a German on board and of course he
never caught up, and that's
how we left Germany, and we arrived in Belgium, the next stop, very quickly,
O.k. and the situation
changes, completely... Helmeted and uniformed Belgian police men and
people that we cannot even
identify... Everybody out... control... and we don't speak any French, by that
time, the tone the
tenner (?) of this whole thing has shifted of course French is now the language
that is being spoken. I
wind up in front of this officer, I don't know whether he was French or Belgian,
and he asked me
something in French, which I didn't understand and I proudly hand him my
paper that says I can go
to Paris... Captain Truglisky, American Army, and I see first he has (he
laughs) he has trouble
understanding what is in this letter, and then I see him saying CAP I TIN TIN
QUINS LI CAP I
TIN QUIG LINS KI.... Chi es CAP I TIN QUIG IN SKILI?... Well he's a big
American Captain in
the American Army, that is way back then... in central Germany who told me
that I can come here
you know, well he doesn't… he clearly doesn't know what to do with all this
but there's one saving
there is on this train, a French Jew called Simon, Simon, whom I had known
in the camp, who had
known me...
Interviewer: He was in Auschwits with you?
Ernest: He was in Auschwitz with me...
Interviewer: Oh, I'm sorry...
Ernest: Yeah, he had shown up, and I knew he was on the train because I
had greeted him and we
had talked about... you know... Simon spoke pretty... his English was, and his
German was pretty
good, so I called “Simon, Simon” you know and Simon arrives, and I tell him
in German that
there's... sees this captain and he doesn't want to accept my thing that I can
go to France you know
and Simon starts in rapid French, I understood not a single word, but
obviously what he said that we
come from the concentration camp, and we're Jewish and we had been
liberated and this officer
gives this sort of typical gallic shrug, you know that says now and says
something in French and
Simon says to us “you can go” coming from a culture where everything has
always been verboten
and nothing is ever done that is against the rules and regulations this
wonderful gallic shrug of this
captain, you know, and saying you can go in French, ves-y he said was quite
a revelation that there
are other cultures and other people in this world but the Germans, so we get
back on this train and it
eventually pulled into Paris, and the train had been advertised that it was
bringing back deportees...
There by the way... on that crossing into Belgium there were many people
that were taken off the
train, lists were compared I mean they already knew who had been a
collaborator, the Belgians had
had a battalion fighting on the Russian front with the Nazi's, and there were
obviously people they
were looking for and there were people that were detained right there and
then... but in any event
we wound up in Paris and the... I think it was... was it Gare Saint Lazar... I don't
know which one it was
what other gare... Gare De Orsay I think it was and we're being deluged by a
group of people and
they're showing us pictures of civilians on the Riviera in bathing suits... with
suits and ties and
beautiful looking people and it was quite obvious... have you seen them, have
you seen them, have
you seen them. And even if you did you would have never recognised these
pictures and relate it to
the pictures that you were shown and I must have been shown, I don't know
how many. No, no, no
we couldn't relate any of these pictures to all these deportees that would
never come back, relatives,
who knows, people been in hiding people living in Southern France and
where have you, looking
for their relatives and we were taken off to Hotel Lutetia which was run by the
French Red Cross,
and we were questioned there and they told us that we should go to the
Rue de Rosier, No they
sent somebody with us in-fact, one of these aid workers, social service
workers was sent with us to
the Rue de Rosier in Paris which was the pre war Jewish quarters of Paris,
and was largely
inhabited by Polish Jews and where Yiddish would be understood, and that's
where we appeared
and er we told them our story and they told ah... yeah..yeah...yez eid Yekkes
and you know Yekke
is a German Jew and the Polish Jews call the German Jews Yekkes
because the German Jews
always wore jackets oh yez eid Yekke well O.K... we are being... we have a
dormitory we're given
beds in the dormitory, we're been given food stamps and er this is how our
life in Paris started.
More and more people are arriving and there's this huge group of what later
becomes known as
D.P's... displaced persons... foreigners from all... places of the... of Europe,
people that had been
deported, people that had been in hiding and the question is what are we
going to do and we are
survivors so we figure that... speak to some Polish Jews that have been
around and they say oh
living here is very easy all you have to do is enter the black market, buy
cigarettes from the G.I's
sell them to the French men, you can make a good living that way, you can
buy and sell parachutes,
chewing gum, chocolate bars you name it, buy low sell high and that's how
you can make a living.
So for the first couple of weeks you know, go out to Montmartre which by that
time has become a
Mecca for American G.I's who are from all places of the Army, on rest and
recuperation and out to
have a good time, and you go up there and you say hey G.I. You have
cigarettes? Cigarettes I have
yes... and you get G.I's... and says yes how much, you know and then you
make your offer and then
eventually you reach a bargain, and you buy a pack or two packs from the
G.I's, you always buy by
the pack, and you break it open and then you go walking along that same
boulevard and whenever a
Frenchman comes you say cigarettes... cigarette... cigarette... and you sell
them by the piece, or two
or three, never a whole pack and there's a profit margin involved in that and
you start making some
money and that's how I spent my first oh I don't know month I guess, I'm
hilariously happy, and
then I hear that the American Red Cross which has a huge warehouse in
Paris, is looking for a bus
boy, or rather somebody who will wait outside the Red Cross warehouse and
er wait for the arriving
taxies with American officers in them who came to pick up their luggage that
had been shipped in
key of the American Red Cross in Paris, and you would open the taxi door
and ask him...the...
whatever officer it is to give you his baggage slip and then you would go in
this warehouse where
everything is alphabetically and numerically arranged, get the suitcase, load
the suitcase on a lorry
kind of thing, bring it down, load it into the taxi, hold out your hand, get your
one pack cigarette tip
and you can do this all day and cigarettes is the great currency of Europe at
that time. And I start
learning some English from the G.I's... er the word Fucking figures
prominently in my conversation
because that's the way the G.I's speak, so I assume that this is part of the
English language, you
know and so it was you want your fucking suitcase you know and it took me
a while to be told
that this is not really quite correct.

TAPE 9 OF 10:STARTS ON THE SECOND VIDEO

Interviewer: We left off on the last tape with you mentioning about the English
language, and some of the words that were used...
Ernest: Right well, you know I spoke the one language that was persona
non grata in France in 1945, in April... ah no no it was May in forty five and that was
German,
understandably so and therefore it became absolutely necessary to learn
French as quickly as
possible and I did enrol in the Alliance Francaise which is a French language
school to start to learn
French, and there I met a guy who was from Holland and had been deported
er through Westerbrook
er into one of the side camps of Auschwitz, and he was liberated there and
his... he was rejoined by
his parents who had been sent to Terezienstaad and also had survived, and
they all were living in
Paris and I met him there and he was going to the Alliance Francaise, and he's
sitting next to me, and
he said to me “Where are you from?” and of course since I only spoke
German and the only other
country in Europe that speaks German is Switzerland I had long ago decided
to bestow upon me the
Swiss nationality, not withstanding the Fact that most German-Swiss also
speak French and Italian,
but in any event I told him that I am from Switzerland and he just thought for a
moment and then he
answers in perfect German, your from Switzerland and I am from Arschcosh (?),
and so we pretty much
established our identity as a German Jew that emigrated to Holland and been
deported from there,
and he became a very good friend of mine and still is and by that time I had
learned that there are
jobs opening at the American Red Cross, as I had said before...
Interviewer: What was the name, of the man?
Ernest: Mr Jerry Rosenstien...And er... so I applied for a job and I got this job
that I had just
mentioned with opening the taxi cabs and getting the luggage for these
officers and bringing the
luggage down, which is where I had left off before and I did this for a few
weeks and I sort of
started to accumulate quite a few cigarettes that could be turned into French
francs, or anything else
for that matter. And then comes one day and there comes a truck and it is full
of bed sheets, coarse
linen bed sheets, all neatly folded and all dumped onto this truck and the
whole truck is full...
Story...What's the story... Well they come from a German er war er hospital
Lazaret they call it,
and they're war booty and somebody in this Lazaret says to send them to
the American Red Cross
and the Captain... Coronel in charge of that Red Cross says “well dump them
here in the corner” and
you know these trucks that open up... lift up so that if you have sand loaded
in them everything
comes sort of rushing down. So all these bed sheets and there were
hundreds of them, are being
dumped in this corner of that courtyard, of the American Red Cross, and
formed this gigantic pile of
bed sheets, some of course come unravelled but they are all new bed sheets.
And this is a country
where bed sheets haven't been seen by the French population since 1940. And there are
some French men working er... in this courtyard er... loading and unloading
and then there's me,
doing this taxi bit, you know, and we are all eying these bed sheets and we all
have one mind that
these bedsheets should be liberated from the Americans and put on the
Parisian market, and the
thing is pretty easy to do, American Red Cross workers are not very
observant, they couldn't care
less about hundreds of new bed sheets lying in the corner, and so we put one
in front... stomach...
underneath the shirt... and outside... I had arranged with a friend of mine...
outside of the street you
have these pissoirs, in the French streets which are these public lavatories
and he was going to
meet me there, and then it just became a question of how many bedsheets
can I steal, per day, if you
can pick up. And we did rather well I think we did six, unfortunately a lot of the
French men in
there had the same idea, so you could see gradually er... these bedsheets...
sort of the pile
diminishing as these bed sheets were being removed. And at first I forgot
what the price was... a
bed-sheet on the black market, what it brought, it was substantial but we
actually affected the
French bed-sheet market, black bed-sheet market price as the price started
dropping as more and
more bed sheets came on the market. Well I had an idea, and this is one
thing I wanted to tell you,
you know I had been an amid (?) of the American uniform, and I had also by that
time seen many
British colonial movies, where the British colonial soldiers wore white
uniforms , always white in
India or wherever, and I thought that the really wonderful thing to do was
to make an American
uniform out of these bedsheets, all in white, and I thought to me that would
have been the most
elegant thing around, and nobody in Paris had an American uniform that was
all white, like the
English colonial uniforms. So I went to a Jewish tailor in this Rue Des Rosiers
which there were plenty
and I says “hey, can you make a suit like an American uniform out of these
bedsheets?” and he
looks... its coarse linen... and he says “there's no problem at all” I said “I want
it to be exactly like
an Ike jacket and pants and” and we agreed on a price and I think it was four
bedsheets for
payments and two bedsheets for the suit, and within a fairly short period of
time he came up with
that G.I. Uniform, American uniform, all in white, white linen and I wore that
for quite a while in
France, I was the only one in Paris who had this white... I have a picture of
it... this... me walking
down the Champs Elises, in this white G.I. Uniform, it was wonderful, there
were many other
stories and things that happened in Paris but eventually of course I was trying
to... since I was
illegally in France I could not legally work, the whole reason of the black
market thing of course
was there was no way to make a living in France you had to be legal and you
had to have working
papers and you couldn't get those, the only way you could get them... if you
were willing to work in
the Alsacian mines, because Alsace-Lorraine had been returned to France,
after the war and the French
really didn't want to work in the coal mines, and the Germans had been
kicked out but I didn't want
to work in the coal mines either, even with the promise of becoming a French
citizen after signing a
contract for I don't know how many years. The other possibility was to enlist
in the French Legion...
Foreign Legion which again I did not feel I wanted to do, so I was trying to get
into the United
States, and my friend Gerry, who I had met at the Alliance Frances, had
already left for the United
Stated because he had some very wealthy relatives here, who had been
living here for a long time.
They had the quota system in effect at the time, the German quota was a
very wide open quota
because the Germans were not allowed to leave Germany, and you belonged
to the quota, in the
country where you were born, since I was born in Germany, I fell into the
German quota, if you
were born in Poland you were out of luck because the Polish quota was very
very small, so I needed
a sponsor, and I had an uncle here, who was a cousin of my mother, but his
financial situation was
not good enough really to sponsor me, you had to at that time show sufficient
funds, so that the
immigrant would not become a public burden, and so I wrote to Jerry and
through his uncle I got a
sponsor and on Labour day of 1947 I arrived in New York...
Interviewer: How did you come here... by ship?
Ernest: Well my various black market dealings had produced enough of a
profit to pay the ticket, it
was a banana boat, it actually was a former troop ship called the Marine
Flasher, and I had thirty or
forty dollars left over, I don't know, it was my treasure trove when I arrived
here but I did win the
ships bingo game, I er... had never played bingo and I really didn't understand
the game, but luckily
enough you can be a moron and still play the game, and I did win an
additional twenty-five dollars,
so I did come here with sixty-five dollars in my pocket.
Interviewer: And did you arrive in New York?
Ernest: I arrived in New York
Interviewer: What was it like for you when you came into the harbour of New
York...
Ernest: Unbelievable...
Interviewer: You saw the statue of Liberty?
Ernest: I cried when I say the statue of Liberty, I cried, and my first trip New
York, of course it was
Labour day, you know we were debarked on Labour day.
I changed my name.
I had already decided in France that I will certainly cut off my previous life
completely. I don't want
to be ever asked, and I don't want to talk about it, that this was one portion of
my life and I'm
starting a new life, in America, as am American, and the first thing that had to
go was my number
Interviewer: Tell me about that experience of taking the number off
Ernest: It was a nothing experience
Interviewer: How was it removed?
Ernest: We just... like a skin graft. I er...
Interviewer: Which arm?
Ernest: It was always on the left arm... It produced not much of a scar, as you
can see. Today it
would produce no scar at all, you know, with the surgery techniques that
they... But I found a Jewish
Doctor and I had asked him whether he can remove my skin, and he was just
getting into skin
grafting and he said that he would be delighted to do that, and so we made
an appointment, and he
in fact invited another Doctor in to watch him because the other doctor too
wanted to learn. Its a
local anaesthesia, they cut out your number, pull your skin together, sew it up
and he put it in
formaldehyde, the removed portion, with my number on it, and gave it to me,
and I kept it for about
a year or two years, just had it in my closet and then one day I just said “
what do you need that for”
and there was a construction, I was living in Regal Park then, in Queens,
there was a construction
site right across the street, where they were building a new apartment
building, and I threw my
number into that construction site, and maybe who knows, in a few hundred
years, some
archaeologist is going to dig it up, as a relic, and wonder what this piece of
skin, with a number on
it, is all about... probably think it's some religious rite of some ancient
people, I don't know (he
laughs) I making that up
Interviewer; Your life in America, did you marry?
Ernest: Yes, I did.
Interviewer: When did you get married, and to who?
Ernest: Er...Well I married er a woman... I was... had... well in-between then I
actually was drafted
into the Army, the Korean war had broken out, and I was just at the right age,
I was twenty-five, and
everybody who was twenty-five had served in the Second World War and
was of course exempt
from Army duties, from being drafted. And since I was not married, a single
male, had then got my
first papers to become a citizen, I was eligible for the draft, and so I got this
greetings from Uncle
Sam to report to White Hall Street, just at the outbreak of the Korean War and
er... they took me...
Interviewer: Where were you stationed?
Ernest: In Korea.
Interviewer: In Korea... What was that like for you, now being a soldier in the
American Army?
Ernest: Well you know, the funniest portion of it was... we first got to Japan,
and we were a troop
ship, first take basic training with the eighty second air borne division in Fort
Brag, North Carolina
and then eventually we report to camp Stoneman in California, San Francisco
for shipment to a
secret location like you wouldn't know where to... The Korean War was in full
swing, but your
going to report to San Francisco... Where do you think you are going to go...
to Germany.
But in any event, er we did reach Yakutia, and that's where we started out
and from there I went
on to... Oh the funny thing is, you know, and this really, really effected me...
is, we got our first
leave in Yakutia before shipping out to Korea and we had a few days, and
there are all these little
Japanese boys, and they say to me “Hey G.I. Do you have cigarettes?”
cigarettes, I have yes... and
you know... and I said my gosh... I did this only two years ago in Paris... and
these Japanese boys
did exactly the same thing, chewing gum... have yes... chocolate... have
yes... It's forty seven no its
fifty actually, er but they still had this black market going. So it was a repeat
really, I said if you had
only knew... know... but I did wind up in Korea and I did go into the Insean (?)
landing and er went up
and down the Korean peninsula with the fortunes of our soldiers, and our
armies, and after two
years I get my honourable discharge as a staff Sargent... Big deal... Was a
luck, after Auschwitz
think the American Army with their steak and ice-cream, wasn't anything to
worry about... so...
Interviewer: And then when you came out of the Army, did you meet your...
your wife...
Ernest: Oh no, not then, I came back and the question was, what am I going
to do with my life (he
mumbles) and I knew that I had to get some sort of education and well, I had
had no good formal
education since the school stopped in nineteen thirty eight er... I had been a
voracious reader and
since reading was just about the only thing one could do as a child in
Germany, since everything
else, for a Jewish child was completely verboten... meaning forbidden. So I
had read an awful lot
(he coughs) and I had read a lot about the United States and you know the
standard books like, An
American Tragedy and The Jungle and Drizer (?) books... etc. etc. And I enrolled,
and I wanted to enrol
in City college and I told them that I have absolutely no school records and I
didn't tell them that I
had stopped school at thirteen, and they said “well I have to take the High
school equivalent to the
diploma” and so I listened around (he coughs) oh yeah well, by that time I...
my... my name was
published in the Aufbau which was a German-Jewish language paper that was
catering to Jewish
immigrants, and among the recent arrivals was my name and I got a phone
call from a class mate of
mine who I had gone to school with, in Germany and he called and says “Are
you” and I says “Yes
I am” and he said “Well, congratulations” and “I can't tell how happy I am that
you made it out...
you are the only one I know...” He was going to NYU studying journalism, he
had come here with
one of the last boats in nineteen forty I think it was...
Interviewer: And what was his name?
Ernest: Henry Kamm, and of course he is a very very well known journalist...
won the Pulitzer prize...
correspondent for the New York Times and er has been with the Times, for a
long, long time and of
course I'm in constant touch with him... But in any event er I enrolled in
George Washington High
School up in Washington Heights because Washington Heights was called
the fourth Reich as its
where all the German-Jews had gone to live. And I was told I had to take
some English and
American history and some other courses, I did, I only spent I think er two
terms at that high school
and then I ventured into the High School equivalency diploma which I did not
really find very
challenging, and so with that passed I enrolled in the evening division of City
College, and er I
really didn't know what I wanted to do but I knew I had to do something to
better my life, and in the
first couple of years you know, you don't have to make a decision, what you
want to major in, but
eventually the Russians set off Sputnik and space became very hot,
engineers were looked for... in
great demand... I figured I might as well go for an engineering degree. And so
I went to City
College, oh gosh, it took me forever, because at night... for one thing every
time I looked around
they upped the requirements for the credits you needed to graduate with an
engineering degree,
Liberal Arts no problem... O.K. But engineering always... so in any event I
think it took me from
nineteen fifty to nineteen sixty two, twelve years, but I had a job ah yeah, it
was at night you know.
And well I graduated from City college it was before open admission you
know at that time City
College was very very highly regarded as a college er... And it was really a
college for a lot of
Jewish students who had come from poorer families and couldn't afford the
tuition but in any event
I had gotten a job first... I had gotten many jobs really, you know... I don't want
to bother you with
all that... I sold vacuum cleaners and from door to door and I sold in Harlem
and then I became an
engineering aid in a very small company and then I was sent out as a hot
body as they called it, you
know, that means contract employee for a specified period of time, was only
supposed to last for
two weeks, this company needed somebody to help out for two weeks, well
thirty years later I retired
from there...
Interviewer: What was the name of the company?
Ernest: Sperry, at the time, when I started it was Sperry, and er well
somewhere in between in the
sixties I sort of decided that this really isn't exactly what I want to do, I was
dissatisfied with
engineering and I decided to go to Law school, so I went to Law school...
Interviewer: Where did you go to Law school?
Ernest: New York Law School, and that took me four years at night and I
graduated from Law
school and passed the bar and that's where I am... (He smiles contently)
Interviewer: And you got married when?
Ernest: Oh I got married, well I married a woman who had com... who came
to my next door
neighbour, as a roommate, from France just for a week she had gone to
Reed College, and she had
just come from France where she had spent six months I think to study
French, and had called her
old room mate from Reed College, and asked if she could stay with her for a
couple of weeks
because she had to make some money before she could get back home to
California, seeing that she
didn't have enough money and er... this is the woman I married...
Interviewer: And her name?
Ernest: Her name is Ardeth. It was Ardeth Olden and its Ardeth Lobeth
Interviewer: And you were married in what year?
Ernest: I er nineteen sixty or something like that yeah...
Interviewer: And er... do you have children?
Ernest: I have three wonderful children (he grins happily)
Interviewer: Would you name them?
Ernest: My oldest daughter is Ingrid and she works for a radio station in
Seattle the equivalent of
public radio in Seattle, and my next daughter is Erica and she is a broker, oh
no you don't call them
broker any more you call them financial consultants with Merril Lynch...
Interviewer: And where does she live?
Ernest: And she lives in Portland, Oregon, and I have a wonderful son who is
married...
Interviewer: And his name?
Ernest: And his name is Christopher and his wife's name is Kimberly and they
have two lovely…
Grandchildren... two years … and six months... respectively
Interviewer: What are your grandchildren's names?
Ernest: It's Hannah and Madison and er...
Interviewer: And you are now presently retired?
Ernest: I am retired from my job at Sperry and I sort of am semi-retired from
the practice of Law
but I still keep my hand in it and I still take cases for clients that I used to
have or still have which
will call me or recommendations as long as it isn't... you know taking... going
to take too much of
my time
Interviewer: I would like to ask you what happened... How did you get reunited with
your sister?
Ernest: Well I had always known her address, and so it was fairly simple to
just write, the moment I
was in France, just write a letter which she immediately answered and then
in-fact there was er a
special telephone line that was established for G.I's but I knew the number
and you could call that
and you could be connected with anybody in England, so I talked to her
almost daily on the phone.
You went through an operator and sometimes the operator would say “who
are you” and I says
“Well I'm an English soldier” You know, but with my German accent she says
“Well, you don't
sound English” (He laughs)... But she connected me anyhow and eventually
I, you know, before I
came here, I saw her and she got married and she has a son, who came
here ,and is my nephew and
he is now a partner in Price Water House which is an accounting firm and he
is a Tax lawyer...
accountant and tax lawyer and is doing very well...
Interviewer: And what about your Grandmother, did you ever find what
happened to her?
Ernest: I learned that she had been transported to Teresienstadt and nobody
else needed to tell me
anything else, it was quite obvious she wouldn't survive very long, I don't
know, you know as far as
I know there are no records of... they kept no records of the people that died
in Teresienstadt, or
incomplete records... she died, very quickly and hopefully... I want to think
that she died more
humanly, than in the gas chamber, you know...
Interviewer: Ernest why do you think you survived?
Ernest: Well you tell me because you know I'v been asked that question and I
don't think there is an
answer, I think it's a chain of circumstances, some that I brought about and
others that came about
without my doing anything, and there were fortuitous circumstances and er...
like everybody that
survived and is being asked that question, I think the only thing that can be
said with certainty about
all of us that survived, and were in the camp for any length of time, or of you
came in the last three
months of the war you know you had a chance of survival by just doing
exactly what was demanded
of you, and hoping that you will survive, but if you were going to be for any
length of time in the
camp then you needed additional luck, whether it was contact with civilians in
Buna or that you
got a job that was energy saving efficient, or what ever it was, you needed
additional help, and that I
had. It certainly helped to speak the language and it definitely helped to be
young because the
philosophy in the camp was... if your old or older, the philosophy in the camp
was... hey you old
one you have already lived, now give the young ones a chance. And that
made no difference
whether you had only lived as the camp saw it for ten years so that you were
lets say twenty-eight
or thirty, you had already lived, now give those fifteen year olds a chance,
who never lived... And
that helped, and you will find that if you speak to survivors, each one had
something going for
them...
Interviewer: What did you have going for you?
Ernest: Well I... what I had going for them... for one thing is youth and the fact
that I spoke the
language and that I had some lucky events happening to me, and that I also
had a willing... a great
willingness to survive you see and that I was not er burdened by having a
wife and family having
been gassed, or having all this mental garbage that you carry... have to carry
with you and that
weighs on you to an extent that you can not help it, that is why I survived...

Tape 10 of 10 starts at 00:30:00 on the second video and ends at 00:40:00

Interviewer: Ernest, do you have any dreams about the Holocaust?
Ernest: Yeah... not often... but they do come
Interviewer: What do you dream?
Ernest: They are all almost invariably... frustration dreams... The dreams
where... I find myself on
this gigantic construction site the Buna... the commando is already too much...
back in to the camp
for counting and I'm still there I missed my commando to join them and I
know that if I don't
reach them before they reach the counting thing at the gate, it will count as
one inmate is missing
and produce certainly my death, and I'm sort of running around that thing
franticly trying... I always
seem to be catching the tail end of the last commando... now you know that
maybe two hundred
commandoes you know, so it takes an hour and a half for all of them to march
by you know, and
you don't know where yours is, you know, it's somewhere in that long chain
and so your running
along it trying to find yours, I don't have it all that often but I was hoping that I
would never dream
about the camp, but that I have not been able to accomplish but on the other
hand it is not that often
you know I mean its comparatively rare... I know people that have told me
that they dream all the
time about the camp and I... luckily I don't, so...
Interviewer: Did your religious beliefs change in any way as a result of the
Holocaust?
Ernest: Oh yeah, they did, I can't say that I was a really devout Jew before
this happened I mean the
orphanage was religious, my grandmother was sort of a reformed Jew who
went to... she ate kosher
but she did buy boiled ham, you know, kind of thing she didn't mind going to
the synagogue on
holidays and even on Saturdays but I mean she was not a religious fanatic.
And I sort of... I was at
that time in any event I guess I was somewhere along those lines. The
orphanage of course I
mumbled all the right things, all the prayer things but I had no real connection
with that... but er
after Auschwitz and I understand other peoples point of view I know where
ever...Elie Wiesel has
er talked about that subject, a great deal and of course he has reached
different conclusions than I
have, but that 's his business... but I really cannot see from a religious point of
view, I'm not talking
about culturally Jewish, I have never denied that... But as a religion I can not
really believe that
there is a God who watches over man and in-fact keeps track of their deeds
and lets an Auschwitz
happen. To me that is an absolute impossibility, and so I have not gone to a
synagogue except for a
wedding or two or something like that, and I think my daughter who sort of
does like to go to
religious services, has taken me... I think in one of my trips out to Pesach 
Seder (?) but I'm not religious.
Interviewer: You mentioned to me that you had made a recent trip to Israel
with your daughters,
how was that for you going to Israel?
Ernest: It was a great trip actually for me, and to tell you the truth I sort of
always felt ambivalent
about going to Israel because truthfully speaking and I never really realised
it... I felt guilty... I felt
guilty of not having gone to Israel in nineteen forty five after the liberation
when the going was
clearly a possibility, my friend Peter went to Israel you know he was one of
the people that went on
the Exodus, in one of the ships, you know, no in-fact actually he had family
there. But I know other
people and if one really wanted to go to Israel from France and Paris in
nineteen forty five, one
could. And somehow I said to myself, well if I have a choice I'd prefer to go to
America. I felt like a
traitor really because the thing after being in afash (?) around Germany and all
the talk about Palestine
and the Jewish state and theor hurst and Zionism and our own Jewish state
and so on and then here I
had the opportunity after all this and I was not availing myself of that
opportunity. I somehow
maybe felt guilty you know and yet it's not a decision that I regret at all, you
know. I don't think I
would have been very happy in Israel... I don't know... certainly not in the
kibbutz I'm too much of a
iconoclast to you know to share and share everything and a kibbutz life I don't
think is for me. It
might be for other people, it certainly is a great concept, it can work amongst
idealistic people but
you really all have to be very dedicated to it, to make it work...
Interviewer: How did the Holocaust... what impact did it have on raising your
children?
Well, that is a question that I think they would be better equipped to answer, than
I am, they probably
would say none dad because you never told us anything. If it was ever
mentioned and maybe was
on very very rare occasions you know it was well dad I don't even know how
many times I don't
think my children were conscious of the fact that I was a survivor of
Auschwitz, my wife was not
Jewish and we did not move in circles of survivors. I knew quite a few of
them, and I met some of
them... my wife met actually some that... on our trip out in California. But by
and large our circle of
friends did not include Holocaust survivors or in-fact European Jews. So the
question never really
came up... I think my oldest daughter today feels that this was a mistake, my
other daughter is sort of
starting to... I don't know what she exactly feels about that, I really have got to
ask her... I will ask
her, and I will ask my son, how they feel about it and how they will feel about
it when they... if they
ever do... (he laughs) see this movie... that we have made here...
Interviewer: What advice would you give to your children, your grandchildren
and future
generations regarding the Holocaust?
Ernest: Well you know I er I don't know who said it but somebody said it...
says that... For evil to
succeed, it is only necessary that the righteous do nothing, and this is very,
very, true or as a
German pastor Niemöller who was a pastor in Germany, in Berlin... once... once
said that... at first
they came for the Communists and I was not a Communist, so I did nothing,
and then they came for
the Socialists, and I was not a Socialist, so I did nothing and then they came
for the Jews, but I was
not a Jew, so I did nothing, and then they came for me, and there was
nobody left to do anything for
me... You cannot let things go... and that... I think that would be my advice to
my children, you have
to fight for what you believe and you cannot be passive and you cannot say
let somebody else do it
and if you have to be aggressive to reach your goal and take a stand... then
do it. And I think that's
all I can think of right now...
Interviewer: I want to thank you very much... is there anything else you would
like to say before we
end?
Ernest: No... I thank you... it was a pleasure talking to you, I really appreciate
it... Thank you.
Interviewer: (Whispers)Thank you.
Ernest; This is my Grandmother and that picture probably was taken around
nineteen thirty eight, I
would say. In Breaslau.
Interviewer: What was you grandmothers name?
Ernest: And her name is Rosa Zibberlstine.
Interviewer: And is this the grandmother that you lived with?
Ernest: This is the Grandmother that I lived with and that sort of is really thee
person that sort of
loved me and nurtured me through my childhood.
This is my mother Freda Lobethal, the picture was taken in Breaslau in the
hospital where she was
slowly dying... (he coughs) slowly dying and this was taken in nineteen thirty
two, with a toy doll
that I think she made for me...
This is a picture of my father Rudolf Lobethal and it was taken er
Johannesburg in South Africa,
approximately in nineteen thirty four or thirty five...
Interviewer: How did you get this picture?
And I got this picture from my sister as all the other pictures that you have
seen I got from my
picture... sister, who when she left Germany took these pictures whit her from
Germany
This is a picture of my mother Freda Lobethal, she is the one in the middle
row, third form the right.
Er... this picture dates back to nineteen thirteen it seems to be a picture of a
part of young people at
that particular period of time
Unknown voice: What was her maiden name?
Her maiden name was Zilberstine...
This is a picture of myself and my sister. This obviously was taken in German
some time in the late
nineteen twenties, I seem to be about three or four years old at that time, my
sister then would be
five years old, and the dress seems to be period nineteen thirty... or what
German children should
wear, I notice the white socks and the luxury high glossy shoes there... well
(Ernest laughs)
Ok this is my sister and myself. My sisters name is Susanna-Eva... James
now. She lives in
England, she married Ronald James, and its probably taken around nineteen
twenty nine... nineteen
thirty and portrays us in the attire of what German children wore...
This is a picture of some of the children of the orphanage in Breslau
Germany. It was probably
taken in nineteen thirty four on one of the excursions that the orphanage had
in the summer... and I've
forgotten what the particular excursion was but that's what it is...
Unknown voice: Where are you?
I am on the top row, the right hand corner of the top row.
Well, this is a photo of me after the liberation, and not too soon after the
liberation I would think it
is probably July of nineteen forty five, the liberation was in April forty-five but
the length of my
hair seems to indicate that it was about that time and it was one of the first
pictures that I needed for
some French identification, and it was taken in Paris, France.
And this is a picture of myself in France I think it is in Perry go, about
nineteen forty six and im
wearing my American uniform, white linen suit, with the white Ike jacket and
the trousers and I
think it looks… stunning
This is a picture of me just after basic training taken in Fort Bragg North
Carolina home of the
eighty second air borne, which I was transferred out of after I had taken basic
training. It was taken
in nineteen fifty, in August of nineteen fifty.
And this is my oldest daughter Ingrid Alison Lobet, and she lives in Seattle,
Washington. And that
picture was taken somewhere around nineteen ninety three maybe or ninety
four I don't know
exactly when.
And this is my daughter Erica Karen Lobet, and my son Christopher Donald
Lobet actually they
call themselves Lobet. And this is a picture taken in New York in Rockafella
Plazza, in nineteen
ninety three.
And this is my son Christopher Donald Lobet and his wife Kimberly Lobet
and my
granddaughter Anna Lobeea and this picture was taken in nineteen ninety
four in Seattle,
Washington.
And this is my granddaughter Hannah Lobet and she is two years old and
this is taken in Seattle
Washington... I believe... and I love that picture very much.
And this is a picture of the whole family, that is my daughter and my son and
Hannah and my ex wife
Ardeth and this was taken in nineteen ninety three in Palo Alto California
And this is my youngest granddaughter Madison Lobet, and she was born
in December ninenteen
ninety four. And I think that's abut the time or a little bit later when this picture
was taken in Seattle,
Washington
THE END