Peter Pan

Abgedroschene: Kindermärchen sind nicht für Kinder

Um erfolgreich zu werden, ein Roman muss mit existentielle Fragen (Leben und Tod,
akzeptanz und soziale Prominenz, Freundschaft, Liebe, verbindung mit Planet usw)

Bruno Bettelheim, der sich an der Traumdeutung und anderen Texten orientiert, hat überzeugend argumentiert, dass die anhaltende Anziehungskraft vieler alter Klassiker der Kinderliteratur auf ihrer Fähigkeit beruht, die symbolisierten Verwirrungen in der Psyche ihres Publikums zufriedenstellend zu lösen. 

symbolic metaphor—the Neverland—of the child's id; and that, secondly, he populated it with figures of an almost archetypal resonance... Captain Hook= Oeadipal Vater 
 
 
PETER
Das Peter-Pan-Syndrom bezeichnet in der Regel Männer, die…

sich unreif verhalten.
Tagträumen nachhängen.
keine Verantwortung übernehmen wollen.
sprunghaft, narzisstisch und beziehungsgestört sind.
nicht zu tiefen Gefühlen fähig sind.

Er lehnte sich ab, erwachsen zu werden. Aber erwachsen zu werden IST LANGWEILIG.

keinen besonderen Ehrgeiz, sind Studienabbrecher, arbeiten in Teilzeit und tun wenig, um beruflich voranzukommen.


WENDY
aufopferungsvoll 

Wendy ist die wahre Protagonist, Peter ist nur ihre Phantasie Schaffung.


REFERENZEN
https://karrierebibel.de/wendy-syndrom/
https://de.wikipedia.org/wiki/Peter_Pan
https://de.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bruno_Bettelheim

==========

4.1.1 Peter Pan
In this analysis, I argue that J. M. Barrie’s Peter Pan follows the home-away-home structure and that this structure emphasises that of a dream. Although Michael Egan (1982) has already touched upon the notion of Neverland being a dream-world, I find his analysis somewhat superficial. In my analysis of the novel, I shall argue that the prominent characters Peter Pan and Captain Hook in Neverland are figments of Wendy’s unconscious. Additionally, Egan’s essay also attends to the oedipal rivalry set between Peter Pan and Captain Hook, and therefore I shall not discuss that aspect of the story. Additionally, Nell Boulton (2006) also pertains to the notion of an oedipal rivalry between Captain Hook and Peter Pan. However, she also focuses on Peter Pan's narcissism and the latency stage which denotes adolescence. In this analysis, I shall apply the psychoanalytical theories of the female Oedipus Complex, the Dream theory and the tripartite personality theory to analyse the manner in which the conflict, disguised as Captain Hook, which haunts Wendy is in correlation with an unresolved female Oedipus Complex. Furthermore, I shall comment upon the aspects of the fantastic as well as the aspects of children’s literature presented in the text.
4.1.2 Analysis
Barrie writes in a third-person narrative in which he describes the actions conducted by the characters in his novel. His text is dramatised by the child protagonists; however, his interjections in the story emphasises Nodelman’s statement that there are two points of view in children’s literature: “The man was not wholly evil; he loved flowers (I have been told)” (Barrie, 2015, 149). This suggests the notion of storytelling in which it is a writer merely telling a story.
Godman 36
The novel begins with an introduction to the lives of the Darlings in which Wendy is the most essential character. In the beginning, the reader, as well as Wendy, come to learn that growing up is a horrible thing. Mrs Darling says, “'Oh, why can't you remain like this for ever!'” (ibid., 1), ultimately emphasising that children must always remain children and that growing up is a horrible affair. This outcry from her mother discourages Wendy. She reflects that “her [mother’s] sweet mocking mouth had one kiss on it that Wendy could never get” (ibid.), emphasising that Wendy will never be like her mother, that she will never grow up to be like her mother. Furthermore, this may emphasise the presence of Wendy’s unresolved female Oedipus complex because she may never become like her mother. Furthermore, this statement may also suggest a disdainful relationship between mother and daughter. Arguably, Wendy wishes to remain a child because it is the only aspect of herself which her mother finds most endearing.
Concerning the home-away-home structure, the beginning of the novel depicts the atmosphere of Wendy’s home. In this sense, Wendy is ultimately situated in the comforts of her own home as well as her family’s loving embrace. In the comforts of her own home, Wendy is safe from development, process and danger. She is protected by her mother, and the significant night-lights are the guardians of sleep: “’Can anything harm us, mother, after the night-lights are lit?’ ‘Nothing, precious,’ she said; ‘they are the eyes a mother leaves behind her to guard her children” (ibid., 24). This emphasises the safety, protection and security which home and parents represent. However, in leaving the room, the children disrupt the enchantment which their mother has cast over their beds to keep them safe; they leave the comforts of home and venture into their minds in order to develop. Moreover, the mother must thus represent the super-ego, the ever-watching eye. Additionally, Barrie writes, “Occasionally in her travels through her children’s minds, Mrs Darling found things she could not understand, and of these quite the most perplexing was the word Peter” (ibid., 8). This further emphasises the mother as a representation of the super-ego; she rummages through her children’s minds to criticise, correct and alter any mischievous thoughts and behaviours. In his essay, Egan also comments on this particular aspect of the mother. In spotting Peter Pan, she is perplexed because she cannot identify him; to her, he is an anomaly which does not reside in her.
The beginning of the novel also introduces the character of Peter Pan. Wendy’s description of Peter is interesting because it emphasises that Peter is an object within Wendy’s unconscious. She says, “Oh no, he isn’t grown up, […] and he is just my size.’ She meant that he was her size in both mind and body; she didn’t know how she knew it, she just knew it” (ibid., 9).
Godman 37
This suggests that Peter Pan is merely a figment of Wendy’s unconscious. He is not in actuality real. Wendy ultimately states that Peter Pan is a part of her, that they are alike in body and mind. Wendy is interested in this anomaly that is Peter because he appears before Wendy on several occasions. He is strange, naughty and rather cocky (ibid., 8), which is the opposite of Wendy. “'It is so naughty of him not to wipe,' Wendy said, sighing. She was a tidy child” (ibid., 10). Arguably, when Wendy utters these words, it may suggest that she is appearing as an adult before her mother; she wishes to show her mother that she can become a grown woman just as beautiful in mind and body as Mrs Darling. Her ego seeks to become perfect in the eyes of the super-ego, and the ego seeks to satisfy its super-ego master. However, the presence of Peter Pan encourages Wendy to embrace childhood rather than the pretend appearance of adulthood.
Wendy speaks of Peter Pan as a familiar friend, one of whom Mrs Darling should know. In doing this, one may assume that Wendy believes that Peter Pan must be present in all humans, both children and adults. Arguably, Peter Pan represents an object of desire in Wendy’s eyes due to his role as father in Wendy’s unconscious: “They called Peter the Great White Father” (ibid., 116). Furthermore, Wendy’s desire to kiss, or thimble, Peter Pan also emphasises the notion of wanting him: “She kissed him” (ibid., 36). Additionally, regarding the female Oedipus complex, one may argue that Peter Pan represents the father figure who is the object of desire for the girl child.
Before the take-off for Neverland, an incident in the Darling residence is the event that is imperative to analyse in relation to the punishing force of the female Oedipus complex. The children and their father are in the process of taking their medicine, but Mr Darling in lieu of taking it himself, gives his to the nursery dog, Nana. The joke goes too far and results in Nana being upset. Barrie writes, “Wendy hugged Nana. ‘That’s right,’ he shouted. ‘Coddle her! Nobody coddles me. Oh dear no! I am only the breadwinner, why should I be coddled, why, why, why” (ibid., 22). One may argue that the act of hugging Nana suggests the notion of clinging onto childhood and certain childish and oedipal desires that belong to said childhood; it may suggest the reluctance to release those desires. The hug may also represent the inability of surrendering her childhood and oedipal desires to remain in the phallic stage, which Wendy does not wish to develop beyond. However, Nana is forcibly taken from the nursery and chained in the backyard. This episode is recorded by Wendy’s ego and ultimately fed to the id as material which may be used in dreams. Arguably, the episode may represent the wish for development but the inability to do so due to an unresolved conflict. However, one may argue that the material presented in this episode underlines the notion
Godman 38
of development and growth, and that the father is considered the punishing force in the female Oedipus complex. Barrie writes, “[Mr Darling] was determined to show who was master in that house” (ibid., 23), which suggests that the father wishes for the children to grow up and leave behind the silliness of childhood and childish desires. Furthermore, his wrath suggests that the father is the figure capable of executing any kinds of punishments because the mother has no say in the matter: “’George,’ Mrs Darling entreated him, ‘not so loud” (ibid., 23). This suggests that the mother’s function is to observe as the father acts as the punishing force. In relation to Freud’s theory of the female Oedipus complex, the mother cannot and does not punish the girl child for her oedipal desires towards her father; thus, the father must be the character who executes punishments and presents the conflict that is the penis envy. The manifestation of the father’s power in this scene resonates with Captain Hook’s power in Wendy’s unconscious; Captain Hook is the representation of the penis envy which Wendy must overcome in order to resolve her female Oedipus complex. Moreover, one may argue that Wendy’s reunion with the penis envy is of an Uncanny nature. It is uncanny because in her waking life, Wendy has already encountered the penis envy, and when she meets Captain Hook again, it evokes a feeling of dread in her:
“[…] something as dark as night had come. No, worse than that […] it had sent a shiver through the sea to say that it was coming. What was it? […] In the light of the lantern Wendy saw his hook grip the boat’s side; she saw his evil swarthy face as he rose dripping from the water, and, quaking, she would have liked to swim away” (ibid., pp. 96).
The repressed material from her unresolved female Oedipus complex appears in her dream, and its uncanniness frightens her. The familiarity of the unfamiliar form of Captain Hook frightens Wendy, and this merely emphasises the notion of a threat or conflict lurking within her unconscious.
Wendy and her brothers, however, go to bed after the episode in the nursery. Arguably, Wendy has repressed the incident; thus, it lurks in her unconscious mind, ready to appear afresh in her dream to come. One may argue that the episode has been unsuccessfully repressed because it later appears in her dream. The incident revolves around the villainous Captain Hook the children and Peter Pan encounter during their stay in Neverland. Ultimately, the beginning of the novel presents the repressed material which will reappear in the “away” part of the novel and play a part in the story’s ending. Naturally, as Barrie plunges his characters into the depths of the fantastic, one must argue that the journey to Neverland is a representation of the marvellous-fantastic as presented by Todorov. The trip to Neverland is unexplained and merely accepted amongst the
Godman 39
characters as a rite of passage, in a sense; therefore, it leans towards the marvellous-fantastic because the hesitation between the natural and supernatural is unbroken.
The dream begins when the lights are extinguished: “one cannot help wishing that they [the night-lights] could have kept awake to see Peter; but Wendy’s light blinked and […] all three [lights] went out” (ibid., 26). Not only is this horrifying, but it also suggests that the children are no longer under the mother’s protection; they have successfully begun their perilous journey of development, and the reader now enters the “away” part of the story. When Wendy awakes, the manifest content of the dream begins: “[Peter Pan’s] sobs woke Wendy, and she sat up in bed. She was not alarmed to see a stranger crying on the nursery floor; she was only pleasantly interested” (ibid., pp. 27). Considering that Wendy is not frightened of Peter in her dream, must suggest that she is fond of him. Furthermore, her interest in his well-being also underlines the fact that he is of great importance to her. The dream has displaced and condensed the father figure with another image, i.e., that of a young boy. Moreover, Peter is presented as the father to the Lost Boys: “'Father, we want to dance.' ‘Dance away, my little man,' said Peter” (ibid., 121). This emphasises the fact that Peter is a manifestation of the father figure, a figure of power and authority as he clearly displays in Neverland. Additionally, Wendy is perceived as the mother in her dream: “'I have brought at last a mother for you all' [said Peter to the Lost Boys]” (ibid., 75). This suggests that Wendy is the representation of the mother for whom the girl child harbours jealousy. However, one may also argue that Wendy observes her female Oedipus complex objectively due to her being the mother figure. However, everything that transpires in Neverland affects Wendy.
In Michael Egan’s (1982) article, he explores the oedipal rivalry between Peter Pan and Captain Hook. He ultimately focuses on the male Oedipus complex regarding Freudian theory. However, as has previously been stated, this analysis focuses entirely on the female Oedipus complex and highlights different elements of the story to emphasise the statement of there being an unresolved female Oedipus complex. This ultimately puts this analysis in opposition to Egan’s article. Moreover, the fact that the analysis focuses meticulously on the female Oedipus complex disregards the notion the common understanding of psychoanalytic criticism, that the author has put onto paper his unconscious desires, wishes and conflicts. It is indeed doubtful that J. M. Barrie has suffered from a female Oedipus complex. This analysis contradicts the common understanding of psychoanalytic criticism if one were to apply this analysis to the life of J. M. Barrie. This analysis treats the characters as independent characters with unconscious desires, wishes and conflicts.
Godman 40
However, returning to the analysis of this novel, one may argue that Neverland is indubitably Wendy’s unconscious, and the characters interacting in that space are reflections of Wendy’s unconscious, whether she takes an objective or subjective role in the story. Furthermore, Boulton argues that Neverland represents the latency stage from Freudian theory in which the child “wishes to defend [itself] against the unpalatable realities of adult life” (2006, 309). However, this does not coincide with the statement of this thesis because the notion of development is cast aside in Boulton’s article. Notably, Boulton focuses on Peter Pan and the fact that he is stuck in the latency stage, caught between childhood and adulthood. However, the case of the latency stage is interesting regarding Wendy’s trip to Neverland, for it suggests that upon her arrival in Neverland, she experiences the latency stage and is briefly caught between childhood and adulthood; the only way for her to develop beyond that stage is to resolve her oedipal conflict.
Notably, Wendy represents a condensed and displaced version of the mother. One is ultimately compelled to view the mother figure as the villain of the story. However, one may argue that the mother’s villainous role in the female Oedipus complex is greatly diminished; thus, it is the father figure who must pose as a threat to the girl child. In Wendy’s unconscious, she perceives herself as the villain, and Tinker Bell represents a condensed and displaced version of the girl child. Tinker Bell is clearly jealous of Wendy: “'She is not very polite. She says you are a great ugly girl, and that she is my fairy'” (Barrie, 2015, 34), and she is extremely aggressive towards Wendy: “Tink hated her with the fierce hatred of a very woman” (ibid., 57). However, in Wendy's unconscious, the fact that Tinker Bell represents the girl child with an unresolved female Oedipus Complex does not dissuade one from the statement that the female Oedipus complex is in actuality Wendy’s. The conflict is resolved and confronted through a different character, which emphasises the notion of an objective perspective on the resolution of the female Oedipus complex. However, Tinker Bell is a representation of the girl child who must encounter the penis envy in order to destroy the female Oedipus complex.
As Egan (1982) has already mentioned, the travels to Neverland equals that of a dream. In that sense, this analysis proves nothing new. However, Egan distinctly argues that the dream is a wish-fulfilment in the sense that it fulfils childlike wishes of remaining a child; thus, his interpretation of the dream is a somewhat innocent one. However, on the other hand, one may argue that Egan disregards the fact that a dream in Freud’s opinion presents the possibility of resolving repressed materials. The fact that a dream is a wish-fulfilment suggests that the dreamer experiences and attends to repressed materials. Thus, this paper argues that it is a dream which allows Wendy to
Godman 41
attend to her unsuccessfully repressed female Oedipus complex and ultimately resolve it. This underlines a different approach to the text which is not wholly identical to Egan’s.
During their travels to Neverland, the notion of time displacement occurs, an aspect presented by Nikolajeva. Wendy questions the timespan in which they have flown and, “sometimes it was dark and sometimes light, and now they were very cold and again too warm. Did they really feel hungry at times, or were they merely pretending because Peter had such a jolly new way of feeding them?” (Barrie, 2015, pp. 45). This underlines the fact that they are no longer in their real world; they have entered the dream and a new world. As they see Neverland, an eerie feeling of uncanniness descends upon the three Darling children: “Strange to say, they all recognised it at once, and until fear fell upon them they hailed it, not as something long dreamt of and seen at last, but as a familiar friend to whom they were returning home for the holidays” (ibid., 50). The uncanny feeling of seeing Neverland is prevalent because the children have created it as a safe haven, or a dream of childhood from an earlier time in their lives (ibid., pp. 7). However, upon their “return” to Neverland, they realise that the familiarity of Neverland is not innocent and innocuous; it is now a place of danger, peril and crucial encounters. Arguably, the island represents the place where a significant, psychological development will take place.
As the children fly nearer to Neverland, the reader learns of Captain Hook: “’Who is captain now [among the pirates]?’ ‘Hook,’ answered Peter; and his face became very stern as he said that hated word. ‘Jas. Hook?’ [the children asked]” (ibid., 53). This emphasises the fact that Captain Hook is a fearful character in Wendy’s unconscious, i.e., the entity which presents a conflict which Wendy must overcome in order to develop. Barrie describes Hook: “in his mouth he had a holder of his own contrivance which enabled him to smoke two cigars at once” (ibid., 63). The phallic symbols of the double cigars suggest that Captain Hook is the representation of ultimate maleness. Additionally, one may argue that the cigar functions as a dream symbol due to its elongated form which resembles that of a penis. Furthermore, considering that Captain Hook is a malignant character, one must argue that he represents the conflict which the girl child must overcome. In the female Oedipus complex, according to Freud, the conflict is that of the penis envy. Thus, Captain Hook represents the penis envy which Wendy’s child self must overcome in order to resolve her female Oedipus complex. This further shows that the mother has no power to execute punishment. Furthermore, Captain Hook is a condensed as well as displaced representation of the penis envy in which he takes the form or image of a male with two phallic symbols. His appearance
Godman 42
is still frightening to Wendy, but the dream work has presented Captain Hook as a palatable entity which is not as frightening as the real thing.
However, the fear that haunts Captain Hook is also interesting to examine:
“’I have often […] noticed your strange dread of crocodiles.’ ‘Not of crocodiles,’ Hook corrected [Smee], ‘but of that one crocodile.’ […] ‘Smee, […] that crocodile would have had me before this, but by a lucky chance it swallowed a clock which goes tick tick inside it, and so before it can reach me I hear the tick and bolt.’ […] ‘Some day,’ said Smee, ‘the clock will run down, and then [it]’ll get you.’ […] ‘Aye,’ [Hook] said, ‘that’s the fear that haunts me” (ibid., 68)
Arguably, this suggests that Captain Hook fears death. Additionally, the ticking crocodile is the representation of Captain Hook’s biological clock running out. However, from a Freudian perspective, the crocodile may also represent the act of identification because it is the entity which can successfully repress the conflict, that is the penis envy. Furthermore, one may argue that the crocodile’s maw is a symbol of the vagina which is capable of swallowing and thus destroying the penis envy, which Captain Hook represents. For the girl child to resolve her female Oedipus complex, she must identify with the mother in order to cast aside her desires for her father. The process of identification underlines the notion that the crocodile’s maw metaphorically swallows the conflict. This suggests a somewhat symbolic reading of the story. Towards the end of the story, the crocodile will come to play a vital role concerning Wendy’s unconscious desires and conflicts. However, I shall expand upon this later.
After spending some time in Neverland, Wendy and her brothers wish to return home, and thus home to mother’s safety, protection and the waking life. The relationship between Wendy and Tinker Bell has not been of primary interest in this analysis because the mother figure is a passive villain. The villainous form of Captain Hook, on the other hand, is of much more importance.
However, when Wendy expresses her wishes to return home, Tinker Bell is extraordinarily pleased with this: “Of course Tink had been delighted to hear that Wendy was going” (ibid., 133). This may suggest that the girl child has claimed the affection of the father and can show affection for her father without the mother intervening. The mother’s retreat suggests that the girl child may possess the father without any trouble. Peter does not hinder Wendy from leaving: “Not so much as a sorry-to-lose-you between them! If she did not mind the parting, he was going to show her, was Peter, that neither did he” (ibid., 131). This may suggest that Tinker Bell,
Godman 43
the girl child, has won over the passive, villainous mother and can now claim the father figure. However, when Hook makes his final appearance to capture the children and the Lost Boys, Wendy becomes the little girl child in the oedipal situation: “Hook raised his hat to her, and, offering her his arm, escorted her to the spot where the others were being gagged. He did it with such an air, he was so frightfully distingué, that she was too fascinated to cry out. She was only a little girl” (ibid., 144). One may argue that Wendy faces the consequences of her desires for the father; she becomes the little girl who must now face the penis envy. When she comes face to face with Hook, she realises the impact of the penis envy. Throughout the journey in her unconscious, Tinker Bell has shown jealousy and hatred towards Wendy, and when Wendy wishes to return home to her waking life, she surrenders Peter Pan and the father figure so that the girl child may have him. Thus, the girl child has won and must now face the consequences of her desires.
On the pirate ship, Wendy, now as the representation of the girl child, finally faces the conflict which has been gnawing at her since her arrival in Neverland. To destroy the female Oedipus complex, Wendy must identify with the mother figure. The identification process prevails because Hook is devoured by the crocodile: “Hook […] went content to the crocodile. Thus perished James Hook” (ibid., 178). This suggests that the female Oedipus complex has been successfully resolved. As mentioned earlier, the crocodile represents the act of identification, and as it devours Hook, it underlines the process of identification in which the girlchild identifies with her mother in order to develop beyond the phallic stage and acquire a desire for bearing children. Ultimately, the swallowing of the penis envy emphasises the process of identification due to the maw’s symbolic value of a vagina, and thus the end of the conflict. From this symbolic death of the penis envy, one may conclude that Wendy has resolved her female Oedipus complex. From this journey into her unconscious, Wendy has successfully repressed and destroyed the inner conflict and can proceed, unscathed in her waking life into adulthood. Ultimately, the journey to Neverland has been a dream-journey in which Wendy’s wish of successfully repressing the penis envy has been fulfilled through the actions of the crocodile. Furthermore, the moment Wendy undergoes the identification process, she is capable of fulfilling her duty as a woman in her waking life because she has adopted a feminine attitude in identifying with the mother, as Freudian theory suggests. She no longer desires her father, and she may return home to her reality and display development and growth from her journey into her unconscious.
After Wendy’s return home from Neverland, she grows up and has forgotten how to fly: “’Why can’t you fly now, mother? [asked Jane]. ‘Because I am grown up, dearest. When people
Godman 44
grow up they forget the way.’ ‘Why do they forget the way?’ ‘Because they are no longer gay and innocent and heartless” (ibid., 201). This emphasises the fact that Wendy has grown up and has conceived her own child; this notion also stays true to Freud’s theory. However, it also suggests that her endeavours to Neverland have come to an end because she has successfully resolved her female Oedipus complex. Wendy’s development suggests that of embracing motherhood and adulthood. Moreover, the fact that Wendy has returned home underlines that the story stays true to the home-away-home structure. The ending is interesting concerning Nikolajeva’s statement that children’s literature presents happy endings. On the one hand, it is a happy ending because Wendy returns home and grows up to have a wonderful life as a mother. However, on the other hand, it is a tragic ending because Peter Pan is doomed to remain in the vicious cycle of childhood from which he cannot escape: “Wendy was grown up. […] and Peter was no more to her than a little dust in the box in which she had kept her toys” (Barrie, 2015, 199).
Barrie explores the dichotomies of home and away; safety and danger; and child and adult in which he makes a clear distinction between the binaries. However, when Wendy returns home from her adventure, she has become a new person; she has undergone a psychological development because she has faced the repressed traumas of the female Oedipus complex and the penis envy and has successfully overcome them. Arguably, this development is a message which must be transferred and received by the child readers so that they may learn from this endeavour. Moreover, the journey into her unconscious signifies that of a Bildungsroman in which she has developed throughout the story.
4.1.3 Partial Conclusion
From this analysis, one may conclude that Wendy suffers from an unresolved female Oedipus complex but destroys it when Captain Hook is eaten by the crocodile, which underlines the identification process. Wendy’s journey to Neverland underlines the notion of dreaming where condensed, displaced and symbolic elements emphasise the presence of an unresolved female Oedipus complex. Furthermore, the villain, Captain Hook, represents the conflict, that is the penis envy, which Wendy overcomes. The resolution of the Oedipus complex results in Wendy returning home and fulfilling her duty as a woman in which she can embrace motherhood as well as adulthood.



